

Mary Strauhs, Olivebridge, NY.
am writing to object to the flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to reject Premium's application for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. The application is facially defective and the proposed project would devastate the environment, the local communities, and would risk the purity of NYC’s drinking water.  Pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects may play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, but the constitutionally protected Catskill Forest Preserve is not the right place for one. 

	1) Article XIV of the NYS Constitution guarantees that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. Changes. if any, to the status of this land would require a constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions of the state legistalure and then subnmitted to a public vote by referendum.

	2)  Contrary to the description in Premium's application, this is not a closed-loop project, which is the kind of project the Department of Energy wants to see due to its lower environmental impacts.  It is an add-on project, using an existing body of water as the lower reservoir.  Add-on projects have significantly higher risks.  The Esopus Creek and other streams flow into and out of the Ashokan Reservoir (which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people). The  proposed project would therefore directly interact with an unfiltered public water source. Since the Catskills are within a State Forest Preserve, they are designated Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. The Department of Energy's own materials on hydropower state a clear preference for closed-loop and not add-on projects and indicate that development of Status 1 or 2 lands should be avoided.  

	3)  Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters.  Water level fluctuations would also increase turbidity within the Reservoir itself.  NYC is not presently required to filter the Ashokan water pursuant to long-standing EPA consent to the New York City Filtration Avoidance Program (FAD).  EPA's consent was just renewed in December 2017.  If Premium's application were to be granted, this would potentially create a conflict between the positions taken by two federal agencies.

	4)  Ulster County should not have been the only county notified of Premium's proposal.  The proposed Stony Clove Reservoir actually falls within the Town of Hunter in Greene County.  Upon information and belief, Greene County was never notifed of Premium's application, rendering it defective on its face.

	5) In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities, requiring the seizing of private property by eminent domain in any of the locations proposed by Premium. Displaced residents would have difficulty securing new, affordable housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County.  There would also be a negative effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

