

Stephen Molmed, West Shokan, NY.
Stephen Molmed, P.E., West Shokan NY, Docket #P-15056-000

The initial permit application, as well as the amended version, clearly demonstrate that Premium Energy has not performed even the minimum due diligence that is required for the application. It brings to question their ability to safely construct a dam that is over 300 feet tall and upstream of many homes. 

Following are a few of the many deficiencies found in the Premium Energy Holdings Ashokan Pumped Storage Project Preliminary Permit Application.

County, City, Town, Or Similar Local Political Subdivision Not Identified

Premium Energy has not identified every county, city, town, or similar local political subdivision in which any part of the project would be located, including names and mailing addresses, as must be provided for a preliminary permit application by Sections 4.32(a)(2)(i) and 4.32(a)(2)(ii).

The proposed Stony Clove reservoir would be located in the hamlet of Lanesville, NY, in the Town of Hunter, NY which is located in Greene County. None of these are identified, nor is a mailing address provided in the Permit Application.

In addition, high voltage transmission lines will pass through the towns of Marbletown and Hurley. These, too, are not identified in the Permit Application.

The application cannot be considered complete and must be considered deficient unless it includes all of the political subdivisions in which the project is proposed to be constructed as well as “Every other political subdivision in the project area that would likely be interested in or affected by the application.” (FERC Checklist For Applications For Preliminary Permits, item II(D) and 4.32). All of the above listed towns, political subdivisions and Greene County are not listed in the application, are those in which the project would be located and are required to be provided under Section 4.32, if not, the application must be rejected.

Non-existent City, Town, Or Similar Local Political in Application

Page five of the Permit Application states that the proposed project is located in Ulster County, New York. While this is correct for two of the proposed upper reservoir locations, the proposed Stony Clove reservoir is located in Greene County, New York.

Page five of the Application also states that the project is located in the Township, or nearby towns of Shokan City and West Hurley City, neither of these exist. 

It is reasonable to expect that Premium Energy is able to identify, and correctly name, all of the politico subdivisions and towns in which they propose to construct this project in their application. By using non-existent names, the application does not identify every city, town, or similar local political subdivision in which any part of the project would be used or located, as required by Sections 4.32 and 4.81 and is required to be rejected.

Lack of Emergency Spillway Description

FERC’s deficiency letter states that Exhibit 1 of the application does not mention any emergency spillways for the upper reservoirs. 
Premium Energy provides a wholly inadequate response, which does not address emergency spillways: “The new upper reservoir alternatives site would naturally discharge runoff water through its own concrete spillways to the existing streams which would be impounded.”  Premium Energy states information about emergency spillways has been included in Exhibit 1 of the amended application, it has not.

Exhibit 1 of the amended application  does not mention any emergency spillway or contain a description for any emergency spillway, to any extent, at any of the proposed reservoir sites, including at a minimum number, dimensions and general configuration of the emergency spillways, as required by Section 4.81(b)(1). FERC’s noted deficiency has not been addressed, resulting in the application remaining deficient. 

Inadequate Maps

FERC’s deficiency letter states the maps do not meet the requirements of Section 4.81(d)(5) “You provide the series of maps for the project layout.  However, the scale of maps is not sufficient to show clearly and legibly all of the information.  Please revise and submit the maps enlarged to a scale that is adequate for that purpose.” Premium Energy responds that a new series of maps for the project layout is provided in Exhibit 3.

A review of the maps in both the original and amended applications shows that a few maps have been added. The scale of the original maps has not been changed, the scale of the new maps is also not sufficient to show the required information clearly and legibly. The maps also lack detail and notations which makes them inadequate properly show information required by Section 4.81 to be provided in Exhibit 3 including. Some other ways the maps do not meet requirements of Section 4.81 are:

1.	They are not prepared on USGS topographic quandrangle maps or a similar maps of a state agency. USGS topographic quadrangle maps are readily available online.
2.	When multiple maps are provided, Section 4.81 requires that an index sheet is included. The application is lacking an index sheet.
3.	Many principal project features are not identified on the maps, including, but not limited to the proposed upper reservoirs, dams and water conveyance facilities.
4.	Four of the maps lack sufficient detail, have no notation, legend or other means to clearly identify what is being represented.

Transmission Lines

The application is inconsistent in its reporting of the high voltage transmission lines running from the power plant to the Central Hudson substation.

The written description in the application states that 230 kv transmission lines are proposed. The maps show 500 kv transmission lines. The difference is significant in many aspects including, that 500 kv transmission lines require higher towers, additional clearance, wider right-of-way, further affecting the use of private properties and residences through which the route of the transmission lines pass. 







