

Jay Mahler, Kingston, NY.
April 9, 2021


Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Attention: Vine Yearick, Director
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426

RE: P-15056 Premium Energy Holdings LLC Preliminary Permit application for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project

Dear Director Yearick,

We, the below signed members of the Ulster County Legislature, hereby unanimously submit the following to be considered public comment in the matter of Premium Energy Holdings LLC Preliminary Permit application for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project: P-15056.

Our commitment to sustainable, renewable power enterprises notwithstanding, projects of this nature should not, and cannot be initiated under a shroud of secrecy. We are appalled at the lack of transparency demonstrated thus far for a proposal of this size and scope located in one of New York State’s most protected regions. For the past month we have received repeated protests from local and state officials and community stakeholders who were caught off guard and by surprise. Regrettably we must count ourselves among those who were blindsided by the existence of a permit application for a Pumped Storage Hydroelectric power system under and upstream of the Ashokan Reservoir. 

It is incumbent upon us as Ulster County elected representatives to make sure that there is no harm caused to our communities. Even under the best of circumstances this proposal will cause serious upheaval to residents and visitors alike. It’s sad that Olive and the mountain communities have, for the last 100 years, worked with New York City to supply and protect one of the best water resources in the world. Now Ulster County communities, already stripped of 118,000 acres owned by NY City and another 250,000 owned by NYS, are once again being asked to cede more property both public and private. 

The current proposal appears to raise more questions than answers. Each of the proposed sites for the new upper reservoir present numerous concerns and questions. A quick and cursory reading of the proposal point to the blocking of spawning areas of a number of trout fisheries, potential, if not assured flooding of residential communities and access points to popular hiking trails, and serious encroachments on constitutionally designated forever wild lands.  Additionally, there are unknown effects on underground aquifers and private wells upon which hundreds Ulster County’s rural residents depend, and question as to how will this plant effect the turbidity in the Ashokan and by consequence the Lower Esopus; an issue this body has been struggling to have adequately addressed for more than a decade? 

We understand that this proposal is in its infancy and at a very preliminary point in the environmental review process. With that said, there has been an inexcusable lack of public notice and transparency. A project of this size and scope demands and deserves review and comment by elected representatives, residents, and community stakeholders. We take seriously our responsibility as the stewards of Ulster County’s unique and amazing natural resources and will continue to advocate for their preservation and protection. 

We appreciate your time. 
 

Sincerely, 


David B. Donaldson – Chairman, Tracey A. Bartels – Vice Chair, Jonathan Heppner – Majority Leader, Kenneth J. Ronk, Jr. – Minority Leader, Lynn Archer – District 21, Albert Bruno – District 2, Brian Cahill – District 4, Thomas Corcoran – District 11, Peter Criswell, – District 7, James Delaune, – District 17, Dean Fabiano, – District 3, John Gavaris, – District 15, Manna Jo Greene, – District 19, Heidi Haynes, – District 18, Herbert Litts, III, – District 9, Craig Lopez, – District 14, Mary Beth Maio, – District 10, John R. Parete – District 22, Laura Petit, – District 8, Kevin Roberts, – District 12, Abe Uchitelle, – District 5, Eve Walter, – District 20, Mary Wawro, – District 1


cc:	Paul Rush, Deputy Commissioner – NYC DEP Bureau of Water Supply     
	Kelly Turturro, Regional Director, NYS DEC, Region 3                               


