

Stuart Felberg, Soldotna, AK.
I am writing this letter to object to the issuance of a permit for the plan proposed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC to the FERC Project No. 15056-000 .
While I am a proponent of the government investing in infrastructure as has been done successfully in the past, I feel that this plan is ill conceived and will be a great detriment to the Catskill Forest Preserve and Watershed Management area which is protected by the NYS constitution.  It will take the well being of this valuable wild resource for the profit of a power company which will be able to sell power at times of high demand for more money while damaging the Catskill Mountains.  The Catskill Mountains are one of the few wild places remaining in the crowded North East, within easy reach of NYC and other populated areas.  The Catskills provide recreation for many users and are protected by the NYS Constitution. 
The proposed application is described in paragraph two of the proposed application “AS A CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM”   “EXHIBIT 1”  DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT”  and sworn to by Victor Rojas Managing Director of Premium Energy LLC as follows “Being duly sworn, deposes, and says that the contents of this application for a preliminary permit are true to the best of his knowledge or belief. The undersigned applicant has signed the application on this 18th day of November of 2020”    
As described by the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy“ A CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM IS ONE WHERE THE RESERVOIRS ARE NOT CONNECTED TO A NATURAL BODY OF WATER”.  This is not the case as the system described in the proposed plan for FERC Project number 15056-000 since it includes impounding of water from the Stone Clove Creek and other creeks included in the proposal. It supports native Brook Trout as well as rainbow trout.  The Catskills cover 5892 square miles and the Stoney Clove Creek is 10.3 miles long and drains a basin of 32.4 square miles, hardly a closed system as described by Premium Energy Corporation.
The basic concept of this project is misrepresented and certainly doesn’t instill confidence in Premium Energy LLC or in the projects for which they are making application.  
Furthermore as I read the New York State Constitution Article XIV clearly states as follows
“The Constitution of the State of New York
ARTICLE XIV 
CONSERVATION
[Forest preserve to be forever kept wild; authorized uses and exceptions] 
Section 1. The lands of the state, now owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private”
The proposal is very vague and incomplete.
I object strenuously to the lack of time allowed for public comment.  By the time I became aware of the project more than half of the allowable comment period had expired.  Others with whom I have spoken were also unaware of the project for more than half of the sixty days allotted for comments.  
As I reviews the project information that was available to me I found it woefully inadequate.  It took significant time for me to locate for example, where the location of the dam to impound the Stoney Clove Creek was to be located.  All mention in the plans to headrace tunnels, surge shafts, horizontal tunnels, penstocks and tailrace tunnels cannot be located on top maps and for the general public it is not obvious even if these areas will be laid bare to build tunnels or power houses or if they will be built from underground by boring tunnels.  No mention is made as to where debris such as demolished homes removed and earth and rock removed will be disposed.   
No mention is made in the proposal of the economic and social damage that will result in the area.
There is also no discussion as to anticipated  damage to the environment,  the local population, home owners and recreational users who come from large surrounding areas including but not limited to NYC, Long Island New Jersey.  
Even after reading everything I could find I still don’t know it the streams involved will be totally eliminated by impounding water which will subsequently be removed through tunnels to drive electric turbines and disappear to someplace down stream to be piped back up to the upper reservoir.  
We are all aware of the value of clean fresh water, and although the water to be used for generation of power will still be available for domestic use in NYC, it will not any longer be available for fish breeding or fishing or other recreational uses.     

I have seen over many years the flooding and soil erosion increase in the Catskills.  It has accelerated significantly in recent years.  It appears this pattern will continue to increase in the future.  If these streams are to rise and fall depending on generation schedules we can easily anticipate more siltation of the water in these streams, which will degrade the waters as fish habitat over larger areas than the immediate construction and be detrimental to the water quality itself perhaps even require NYC to require filtration, a process that have been trying to avoid for years
The Catskills is an especially unique place being that it is a wild and beautiful mountainous area close to large metropolitan areas and is used in many ways by numerous recreational users.  We would be wise to foster that recreational use in the Catskills rather than disturb it and discourage recreational use.
We have far too few wild places and wild streams, especially in the East.   Keeping the Catskills in its natural state is a worthwhile effort and we should not dam any wild streams in those few locations where they still exist.  Saving the Catskills is more important than this effort at making money for the power company and a misguided effort to reduce carbon emissions in this way.  
Stuart Felberg alaskabushflying@yahoo.com 907-841-5410

