

Wendy Wolfenson, West Shokan, NY.
Comments of Wendy Wolfenson regarding Premium Energy’s Proposal for the
Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage Project

Docket: P-15056

April 8, 2021

I am respectfully requesting that FERC deny the application of Premium Energy in the above-referenced project.  

Premium Energy has clearly not given this project the attention that it deserves, as evidenced by the numerous errors and omissions that pervade both the original and amended applications for a permit.

Please note just some of these mistakes:

1)	There is no “Shokan City,” “West Shokan Town,” or “Olivebridge Town.” The fact that Premium has gotten so many of the locations of its project incorrect suggests either incompetence or indifference to the affected communities.  These errors, either deliberate or accidental, have delayed the ability of the local municipalities to alert their citizens in a timely way.  Through incorrect addressing by Premium, the time in which officials and citizens could prepare their responses was also wrongly shortened.  Compelling Premium to correct these errors and resubmit its application would provide the municipalities and citizens with the comment period they are supposed to have during the permit application review process.

2)	Using Hudson Valley One as a means of satisfying the requirement to inform the public is inadequate.  Hudson Valley One is a weekly newspaper that is not widely circulated in the affected areas.  Its focus is on the more urban areas of Ulster County, such as Kingston, New Paltz, Woodstock and Saugerties.  By contrast, the Daily Freeman has a much larger circulation in the rural parts of the county and also includes Greene County in its base.

3)	 By failing to inform all the municipalities in a timely way, if FERC approves this application now, they are denying elderly citizens their right to become informed, file as intervenors, and comment at this stage.  Due to Covid-19, the normal process of face-to-face town meetings has been impossible.  As a result, many towns have tried to get the word out about this project through Zoom meetings and websites.  Since many of the elderly residents are unfamiliar or uncomfortable with these means of communication, the elderly are less likely to participate fully in this process.  Consequently, in order to protect the rights of the elderly, every aspect of timely notification should be enforced.


4)	There is no mention of the tunneling under private property that would be required as part of the plan.  It is unclear what damage to home foundations and wells this would cause or whether Premium even has the right to do this, absent the consent of the landowners.  Without the tunnels, the project is not buildable.  To approve the permit at this juncture, without resolving this issue in advance, allows Premium Energy to effectively “land bank” for years, without the possibility of successful completion.

5)	There is no mention of the Bushkill Cemetery, which exists within 300 feet of the access road to the upper Wittenberg reservoir (Moonhaw Road).  How does Premium Energy intend to protect the graves on this site during a lengthy construction period?  Many of these graves were actually moved from their original location, underneath the Ashokan Reservoir, when that reservoir was built over 100 years ago.  Are the graves supposed to be moved a second time or disturbed for years by countless heavy-duty construction vehicles?

6)	Premium states the high-voltage high-tension wires would run 12.9 miles.  This measurement is actually a straight line, as the crow flies, It would mean running these wires across the Ashokan Reservoir itself, which is an impossible scenario.  The actual running distance from the Hydro Plant in West Shokan to the Hurley Substation is closer to 20 miles.  This means that the use of these unsightly and potentially dangerous wires and towers is roughly 50% more than Premium states in the application.

7)	There is no indication of how Premium intends to obtain the property to build the miles of high-tension power lines.  Specifically, Premium does not disclose whether they will be putting these lines on New York City property, taking additional private land by Eminent Domain, or insisting instead that people in residential and protected areas will simply be forced to live with these eyesores and potential dangers on their property or near their homes.

8)	Premium Energy failed to address the potential for flooding in the project area.  They should be compelled to do a thorough FEMA review and mitigation plan.  The area around the proposed Wittenberg Reservoir is so flood-prone, that Federally subsidized flood insurance is required in order to obtain a mortgage.  The impact of spillage from the upper reservoir in times of excessive rainfall could be life-threatening to downstream residents. 

9)	 In its resubmission, Premium Energy said that “soil and rock borings will be necessary to determine the rock/soil structure and stability for the proposed dams and power plants foundations.  Soil and rock samples shall be extracted to conduct studies and determine the soil mechanical properties.”  Premium Energy does not explain how it will obtain these necessary samples, or even obtain permission to cross private land to get to New York State land.  At this juncture, it has become abundantly clear that the local landowners are vigorously opposed to the project and have no intention of cooperating with Premium Energy.
 

This project is clearly opposed by all the different communities and stakeholders.  Out of over 600 comments so far, there are only 2 that support it.  With a community-wide disapproval of over 99 ½%, and evidence of incompetence on the part of the applicant in so many areas, large and small, FERC, as the public’s Energy Regulatory defender and overseer, needs to put a stop to Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project immediately.


