

Joshua D Holz, Phoenicia, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the destructive proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains.

I grew up and spent my childhood on my family's farm at 1118 Woodland Valley Rd., where an enormous dam threatens to carve out and flood the Esopus. Us residents of Woodland Valley are no stranger to our ecosystem and community being threatened by big business and water projects. Even so, Premium Energy Savings has proposed the most invasive and radically destructive plan I have witnessed in Woodland Valley. Putting a dam in the Esopus would be detrimental to wildlife and the environment, destroying an entire community of fauna and flora in the stream.

I immensely worry for my parents who have lived in Woodland Valley for most of their life and have built a community there. We hosted a 4H Club for over a decade where local youth got hands-on experience with farming and agriculture. My mother continues to use the land and raises some livestock and my father grows much of our food in our garden. I fear for my parent's safety with a power plant obliterating the Esopus, potentially flooding our home and destroying an ecosystem. This invasion has no place in our community. 

Our property floods most summers from rain storms, and I can only imagine how a massive reservoir would corrode or destroy our house and neighbors'. Premium Energy Holdings's plan is purely big business, and happily uses our community and the environment as collateral. It is not a realistic or safe plan, and will have a catastrophic impact on our road. 

It's a toxic plan that will have unforeseeable consequences on our ecosystem for decades. FERC must decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

Signed,

Joshua Holz
1118 Woodland Valley Rd.
Phoenicia, NY
12464







