

Chris Kronus, Brooklyn, NY.
Hello, I am writing as a homeowner in Shandaken, NY to strongly oppose the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings. While I am very much in favor of moving towards renewable energy, the Catskills is not the right location for this project and the proposal shows that the company has not done the proper research to understand the impact on the region and the company is attempting to be misleading in their characterization of the project as closed loop.

The Catskills is a protected region, and the proposed sites within the project are located within the Catskills Forest Preserve (though the company falsely states the project will take place outside the protected boundaries - it won’t. This area is protected within the New York State Constitution, which deems these lands shall be forever kept as wild forest lands and shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private. Any change would have to be passed by constitutional amendment, which would involve state legislative approval and a public referendum - this would almost certainly never be passed, so this project would be unlawful and unconstitutional.

As a fly fisher, snowboarder, and ice climber I’m also very concerned about what this project might do to the outdoor activities that the Catskills are known for. Pumped storage reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations in water, which would wreak havoc on surrounding wildlife habitats and alter the sediment regime in the Esopus which typically provides world class trout fishing. Route 214 is also one of the proposed sites for exploration, and re-routing this critical byway would be devastating. Route 214 provides access to skiing and snowboarding at Windham and Hunter Mountains, access to hiking trails across the area, and access to the best ice climbing routes in the Catskills. Modifying access to this road would mean limiting access to these critical outdoor pursuits and decreasing revenue from tourists engaging in these pursuits.

Finally, the company has either not done their proper due diligence or they are intentionally lying about characterizing their project as closed loop. This project is an open loop system, an add on project where an upper reservoir would be added to an already existing lower reservoir connected to a natural water source. The fact that they are attempting to distract and use the term “closed loop” to infer a smaller environmental impact is misleading and concerning - it shows they either do not know the land they wish to explore or worse, they do not care about the land they wish to explore and that will have horrible lasting effects for this region.

