

Robert Janiszewski, Tannersville, NY.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission					April 9, 2021
888 First Street, NE. Room 1-A
Washington, DC  20426

ATT: Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary to the Commission
RE: The proposed Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage and Hydro-electric Project
        Docket P-15056
 
Dear Commissioners:  

	The Mountain Top Progressives (MTP) is an environmental activist group of 400 residents of seven Towns, several Villages, and a number of Hamlets who call the Mountaintop home. Located in Greene County, our communities stretch from Hunter on the South and East to Windham on the North and East. Traveling west on Route 23A in the South and on Route 23 in the North, we get to the western border at Prattsville - at the Gilboa Dam and the Schoharie Watershed Reservoir – all part of the NYC-DEP Watershed.  We are, for the most part, located within the Catskill Forest Preserve.  We write today in response to a proposed 2-year study put forth by Premium Energy Holdings LLC of California as indicated above.  In doing so, we join in protest with a massive number of local and State Government Officials within the proposed project area. These include our own Mountaintop Town governments, Officials in both impacted Counties - Ulster and Greene Counties - as well as our NY State Representatives – State Senator Michelle Hinchey and Assembly Member Chris Tague. This list includes the Mountaintop Town Supervisors, the Mayor’s Mountaintop Coalition, and the Coalition of Watershed Towns. 

Awareness of this proposal was delayed for some reason, yet a broad range of community organizations have also added their opposition as well.  These include the Sierra Club, the Catskill Center, the Catskill Mountain Keeper, the Catskill 3500 Club, the Ashokan Center, Trout Unlimited, the River keeper, the Mountaintop Arboretum, and many other entities who have expressed opposition to this proposal. As the Mountain Top Progressives, we join in voicing our concern and our position encouraging you to reject this proposal.  The following is a list of major reasons that have provoked our opposition. 

1.	HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION – COMMENTARY.

Given the need for power generation, many alternative options present themselves. Hydro-electric power is just one of those.  Although far more attractive than burning coal or other fossil-based petroleum non-sustainable products to generate power, other less intrusive options – solar, wind, and nuclear sustainable sources are also options.  Which options are sustainable, attractive, efficient, and less intrusive in a given environment or location raises serious concerns regarding this proposed project study.  Compared to both solar and wind generation, this hydro-electric pumped project is a far more intrusive and destructive proposal.  The required construction results in disturbing, altering, or destroying the surrounding environment. Such an action also results in an erosion of regional economic attraction as well as recreational tourist access. Aside from carbon-based energy generation, this proposal is the least attractive compared to the other sustainable options.  As water is pumped-up to the flow-down reservoir with a 215-225 foot dam and hundreds of submerged acres, piping installation and more, the power required to pump water to a higher altitude in order to create a return flow over turbines is far less productive than solar and wind stations. Further, such an undertaking is far more expensive to construct and substantially intrusive within the host environment.  

2.	THREE OPTIONAL SITES FOR STUDY – INCLUDING STONY CLOVE NOTCH, HUNTER

The Catskill Mountains – particularly the Northern Catskills – are largely contained in the CATSKILL FOREST PRESERVE. Established in the NY State Constitution in the 19th Century, this 700,000 acre “preserve” was designed to protect the forest and the environmental flora and fauna, provide tourist access and recreational opportunity for visitors, and grow appreciation for the beauty and vistas that have been enjoyed for generations.  Mountaintop tourism was ignited and launched in the 1830-50s by the HUDSON RIVER SCHOOL OF ART led by artists like Thomas Cole, Asher Duran, Frederic Church, and others.  Their landscape artwork toured the US and Europe as well and generated much visitor interest in personally exploring “the Mountaintop.”  One of the well-known pieces of art, in fact, depicts Stony Clove Notch - one of three selected optional sites for the construction of a dam and reservoir, including a 225 foot tall dam, installation of flow pipes and pumps, acres of land absorbed, and Rt. 214 cut-off and closed. The Stony Clove site, although an attractive option with the highest altitude of the three sites presented, is within the Catskill Forest Preserve. Stony Clove features the Devil’s Tombstone Campground – one of the oldest camps in the Catskills and among the most active. It is an access point to numerous trailheads including Devil’s Path and the famous Long Path. This historic location may very well be denied access, devastated, drowned, or destroyed by the project. 

ROAD ACCESS FROM THE SOUTH: Access to the entire Mountaintop from a single southern access road – Route 214 – is also destroyed in this option with the creation of a remote receiving reservoir at Stony Clove Notch.  The road closure of Route 214 as shown on the maps contained in the proposal severs the road connections between Phoenicia (Ulster County) and Hunter (at Lanesville – a village of Hunter in Greene County, NY). Route 214 is the primary link between East/West Route 28 at Phoenicia and East/West Route 23-A located in Hunter.  This limitation on access points to the seven Mountaintop Towns - including Hunter on the southern border and Windham on the north via Route 212 - includes seven towns, several Villages, and a number of Hamlets - most in the Schoharie Watershed). East/West access to the entire Mountaintop is limited to Routes 23 and 23A. Route 212 from Rte. 23A South to Rte. 23 North connects the two.  The southern Mountaintop access connector between Route 28 (Ulster County-Phoenicia) and Route 23A (Greene County-Hunter and access to the Mountaintop) is Route 214.  If selected, the Stony Clove Notch Option would erase Route 214 – the southern access road.  

DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, HOMES, AND ACREAGE:  Once construction gets underway and the related environment, acreage, and properties are acquired, homes will disappear, farms, camps, and trails will be closed, retreats demolished, and trees removed.  Digging, installation of pipes and pumps, stoppage of streams and ponds, and the closure of roads will take place as well.  Such sacrifices and risks undertaken can forever diminish our environmental quality, our forested beauty, and our recreational opportunities and attractions. Worse, and potentially illegal, this option would invade the Catskill Forest Preserve as set aside in the NY State Constitution. This is completely unacceptable, impacting our environment, water quality, access, and attraction for visitors – the basis of our rural Mountaintop economic vitality.   

3.	ENVIRONMENTAL/WATERSHED RISKS: DISRUPTION AND DESTRUCTION.   

From flora and fauna, to fish, birds, and trees as well as to other forest growth that has reflected the policy of Forest Preservation for more than 100 years, we object to its destruction and to the accidental importation of invasive species into the our protected Forest Preserve. Further,  along with other Watershed communities, we express deep concerns regarding water quality and turbidity consequences. The long existing Watershed on the Mountaintop and between our communities and the Ashokan will be disturbed and potentially be diminished or denigrated.  

And, a further series of concerns and questions have been raised. Will clean water access via the Watershed system of collection and supply be disrupted for an inefficient hydro-electric power project that may prove to be invasive? Shall we violate the more than 100+ year Catskill Forest Preserve status and erode our commitment to environmental preservation for electric power with other less-intrusive options in solar and wind power? And, how desperate is the need for such a project?  

In closing, we encourage you to reject the proposed $5 million, 2-year study submitted for review by your Commission.  We have witnessed a rapid growth of community opposition as well as governmental calls for rejection from the Town Level, to the Counties involved – Greene and Ulster, and to our State Elected representatives.  And, there is no support from the NYC DEP which manages the Watershed assets, or from the NY State Department of Environmental Conservation.  Support is absent and opposition abounds.  We join in opposition. Please reject this proposed project. 

Respectfully Submitted, 


Mountain Top Progressives
On Behalf of the Executive Committee:


Ellen Schorsch			Jonathan Gross			Sheila and Paul Trautman

Stan Hellman			Robin Levin 			Gayle and Maret Panzenbeck

Robert Janiszewski		Ron Lipton








