

Jerry Sforza, Mount Tremper, NY.
				Jerry and Monica Sforza
				227 Beaverkill Road
				Mt. Tremper NY 12457
April 9, 2021


Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Re:    FERC Project No. 15056-000, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, submitted by Premium Energy Holdings LLC, Walnut, CA.

Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing as a concerned resident of Mount Tremper, NY regarding a proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. 

My wife and I recently sold our primary residence in NJ and decided to move full time to what was our weekend home in Mount Tremper.  Our decision to make Ulster County and the Town of Shandaken in particular, our permanent home is primarily the community.  We thought this tight knit, hardworking community who care about each other were as protected from development as the pristine forests where we all reside.

To think that whole communities will be displaced by permanent, engineered flooding if this project were to be approved is hard to comprehend.   Particularly during a time when many residents are struggling to stay healthy and literally keep their head above water financially.  Government dictated compensation for displaced homeowners will not allow these friends and neighbors to remain in the area.

Coming from a State with a history of awful environmental and eminent domain abuses (i.e. Long Branch, NJ), I thought living within the protected watershed for NYC’s 8 Million + residents would ensure that the local community and its environs would stay intact and safe from developmental abuses of any kind.

I urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holdings request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, primarily because it would displace long-time residents in a very tight housing market, have a devastating impact on local wildlife, and reduce much needed tourism to the area.

Visitors and residents hold dear the undisturbed natural beauty of Catskill Park.  Tourists from NYC and NJ seek to escape the disruptive power generation and transmission projects that have no place in a “forever wild” park.

Renewable, green-energy sources should not come with irreversible community and environmental costs. 

Please use your power to stop this misguided project and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


Sincerely,


Jerry and Monica Sforza
Mt Tremper Residents



Cc:
Congressman Antonio Delgado
US Senator Chuck Schumer
US Senator Kirsten Gillibrand




