

Smiley David, New York, NY.
I am writing in response to the flawed proposal by Premium Energy to build a hydroelectric power plant in the Catskills. FERC should decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, disruptive to local communities, and risky for NYC’s drinking water.

Pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our transition to renewable energy but the pristine forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed. The NYS Constitution clearly guarantees that these lands “shall be … forever wild." Such lands will not be leased, sold or exchanged, nor held by any corporation, public or private. The Preserve's thousands of acres of continuous wildlife habitat cannot be traded away, setting a dire precedent for protected lands across the country.

Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on stream ecologies and on aquatic and land habitats. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries. The Project would negatively affect Esopus Creek, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply. It would be short-sighted to allow a project to proceed that would threaten the Ashokan Reservoir, the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, representing billions of dollars in public investment. If the Reservoir succumbs and fails to meet water quality standards, the State will bear massive costs for remediation.

Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities, requiring the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain. Given the real estate "boom" in the Valley, displaced residents would have a hard time securing new housing. Beyond the problem of displacement, the project would hurt the vital Catskills tourism economy by limiting access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts in the region, and dampen tourism across the region, hurting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Finally, the Project does not represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy seeks. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium claiming the project is “closed-loop” when, in fact it is not. The State cannot trust a company that lies in their proposal for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project (and honestly "closed-loop"), where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


