

SUSAN JAWORSKI, Shokan, NY.
I am writing to FERC to encourage the rejection of the Application for Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project as applied for by Premium of California.  

In reading the Premium of California application in section 1. General Construction, the application states  “The Project proposes to use the existing Ashokan Reservoir as a lower pool” and immediately contradicts that statement in the following paragraph “ The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop. “
The application continues to comment on the value of a closed loop plan proposal, but in review of the plans laid out in the application and with a local understanding of the Ashokan Reservoir upper basin, the plans do not meet the most basic commitment of closed loop.  The non closed loop plan as documented references the impact on the reservoir basin water with respect to water level changes but fails to consider or comment on the potential impact of increased turbidity in the existing reservoir system providing approximately 40% of the drinking water for New York City. 

In further reading of the application, it is clear that this proposal is so poorly prepared that a lay person as myself would hope that this proposal is rejected outright.  As a strong proponent of renewable energy and hence an understanding that pumped storage hydro will be an important part of our future renewable power needs, I read this proposal with interest.  For that reason, I also want to comment that all energy creation and storage is not equal.  If preserving a sustainable environment and meeting our human resources needs is our goal then a poor choice of location or strategy of locations for pumped storage must also be considered.  I advocate that the locations chosen in this proposal should also be rejected.  I will comment on those environmental reasons for rejection below. I advocate for a future looking strategy, understanding that it may well challenge our engineers and technologists, but a strategy that selects locations that avoid further impacting environmentally pristine wildlife habitat, which require generations to restore, should be the goal.  Preservation of existing natural environments is critical to any sustainability model.  Given our history of damaging environmentally sound sites to meet our resource needs in the past, we now have the opportunity to challenge our brightest minds to choose locations wisely.  With improved selection of locations, there is also an opportunity to restore native environments to locations that are currently being damaged or were previously damaged to meet  human needs.  I challenge our engineering communities to identify such locations, for example locations that are being or have been mined or quarried and have not yet recovered environmentally.

Notable aspects of the land being considered in this proposal:

The Department of Energy Hydropower Vision report documents their framework with “Sustainability” as one of three pillars indicating  “Ensure that hydropower’s contributions toward meeting the nation’s energy needs are consistent with the objectives of environmental stewardship and water use management.”  Further 3.3.4 Hydropower Environmental Considerations of the Hydropower Vision report highlights among others: critical habitat, species of concern, and protected lands.


Critical Habitat and Species of Concern:
The land identified in the proposal is home to several species that have received notable statements for protection:  the protected Three Birst Orchid registered in the Biological and Conservation Database for Northern America, identified Audubon Catskills Peaks Important Bird Area, northern long-eared bat summer foraging habitat and timber rattlesnake habitat identified NY-Threatened, black-throated blue warbler, scarlet tanager, and wood thrush habitat identified NY-Species of Greatest Conservation Need, raptors Cooper’s hawk, red-shouldered hawk and sharp-shinned hawk and eastern hognose snake habitat identified NY-Special Concern.

The streams and creeks impacted are both trout waters and trout spawning habitat.

Protected Land: 
The proposal’s impact to the Catskill Forest Preserve has had special protection under the NY State Constitution since 1885. Article XIV of the NYS Constitution specifically states that these forested lands "shall be forever kept as wild...". And that they "shall not be leased, sold, or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private." 

State Forest Preserves which includes the Catskill Park Preserve, are classified under USGS Gap Analysis Program. The Department of Energy Hydropower Vision report states “Areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the U.S. Geological Survey’s Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”

Lastly, a few generations back the communities and the natural environment contained within this proposal were severely impacted to meet the drinking water needs of nearby New York City.  There is an ongoing relationship that requires significant management to meet the needs of our NYC neighbors and the livelihoods of our remaining communities.  I will let NYC comment on the impact of this proposal to the NYC drinking water, but I will note that our communities' livelihoods are significantly built on a tourism economy from our amazing protected natural resources.

Thank you for consideration


