

Susan H. Gillespie, Rosendale, NY.
Ms. Kimberly D. Bose					April 8, 20212
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

Premium Energy’s above-captioned proposal to FERC was developed without any familiarity with the terrain or the communities where the pumped storage facility would ostensibly be located. Nor did they contact any of the affected municipalities, including Ulster County, before submitting their proposal. It is hard to believe that this is a serious proposal at all, given Premium Energy’s failure to consider the most basic problems with its scheme.

Premium Energy’s proposal is internally contradictory, stating on page 6 of its letter (dated January 9, 2021) in response to the FERC’s notification of deficiencies that it “would use the existing Ashokan reservoir as a lower pool and proposes a new upper reservoir in the Catskill Mountains to serve as upper pool. The filling of these reservoirs would be done through the Esopus Creek and the existing Ashokan Reservoir,” and on page 11 of the same letter that the proposed project would operate in a “closed loop. Aside from evaporation and percolation losses, the project’s water would stay within the system. Therefore, the existing Ashokan Reservoir’s remaining water storage would not be used for project operation.”

The Woodland Valley and Wittenberg Reservoir sites proposed for the creation of a second reservoir are located within the Slide Mountain Wilderness Area, a constitutionally protected wilderness in New York State. At 47,500 acres, it is the largest tract of state-owned Forest Preserve in New York's Catskill Park, and the largest area under any kind of wilderness area protection between the Adirondacks and the southern Appalachians.

The Catskill Park is protected from development. “The state constitution requires that any property owned or acquired by the state in those parks ‘be forever kept as wild forest lands’ and prohibits it from selling or transferring them in any way (save amending that section of the constitution to allow specific transactions)” (Wikipedia).

The area is home to rare and threatened species, including the nodding pogonia and other endangered animal and plant species. According to the Slide Mountain Wilderness Unit Management Plan: "Rare Plants: A large colony of the orchid nodding pogonia (triphora trianthophora) occurs at a low elevation in one ravine in the unit. Rare in the northeast, this orchid is found in only three other locations in New York State" (p. 6).

Thanks to New York States unique management approach, the Catskill Park is not only a protected wilderness, but one that serves the recreational and educational needs of hundreds of thousands of people every year. 

Should the Woodland Valley location be selected, the new reservoir would not only inundate many properties but would block access to additional homes at the head of the Valley, as well as to the State-managed Woodland Valley Campground, which offers 70 tent and trailer sites, along with easy access to fishing and hiking. The Woodland Valley campground serves as the trail-head for both the Slide-Wittenberg Trail (the Burroughs Range) and the Woodland Valley-Denning Trail, which provides access to the Giant Ledge-Panther Mountain Trail.

Woodland Valley Stream is a famous trout fishing stream, containing brook trout, brown trout, and rainbow trout, as well as cutlips minnow, blacknose dace, longnose dace, sculpin, and white sucker. 

All of the proposed sites have important historical resonance. At the heart of the terrain is the Burroughs Range, named for naturalist John Burroughs, an eloquent advocate for the region. His 1910 essay In the Heart of the Southern Catskills describes his first experiences exploring the Wittenberg-Slide-Cornell area. Burroughs, whom The Atlantic once called “the single most popular nature writer in America for many decades (The Atlantic, May 2006 issue), helped found the environmental movement in the US. Destroying the historic heart of the place he so loved would send a terrible message about this country’s environmental values and appreciation of wild places. 

There is another history in the region that also militates against the proposed project. Between 1907 and 1915, 16 communities were inundated and approximately two thousand residents were forcibly relocated, while roads, homes, shops, farms, churches, and mills were taken by eminent domain and either moved, abandoned, or torn down, with laughably small recompense. The vent has recently been memorialized in a beautifully illustrated series of four articles, beginning in November 2020, in Places journal. As stated there, “For upstaters, the reservoirs that provide water to New York City represent at best an imposition and at worst an imperial pillage of the landscape” (https://placesjournal.org/article/reservoir-an-account-of-human-costs/).

Last but not least, the movement of millions of gallons through the Ashokan reservoir and Esopus Creek would further threaten the water quality of New York City, which is the largest city in the US to offer unfiltered drinking water to its residents. The Ashokan provides 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. The city is already struggling to maintain the quality of its drinking water, as demonstrated by its frequent releases of muddy water into the Esopus, turning it cocoa brown and generating resistance and heated negotiations between New York City and the local municipalities whose own natural resources and attractiveness for tourism are directly impacted. 

My family has been resident in the Woodland Valley since the 1800s. I strongly urge the FERC to decline the request by Premium Energy Holdings for a preliminary permit to further develop its hare-brained scheme scheme (with apologies to hares) to build Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 
Sincerely,
/s/
Susan H. Gillespie


