

Maya Branman, Olivebridge, NY.
To Whom This May Concern:

I am yet again disturbed by the rush by inconsiderate corporations and entities to use and forever damage public lands for private gain.

The reasons why it matters to me is that I live here. This land is a buffer between the over development of cities and the expansion of human habitation. It is no joke. We need the land to be as it was designated to be in 1885. Even back then they appreciated the value of nature. this is my land. Not theirs. You need to protect the rights of citizens.

It would be easy for the developers to ignore the many scientific and moral reasons and go with something like, "Get over it." That's what happens time and time again with the powerful components of our society. They ignore the facts and use propaganda and power to take from us what is ours.

Here are some actual, intelligent, rational, scientific, moral, and humane reasons it is a bad proposition to take over public lands that are earmarked for recreation and heritage purposes:

1. Legal: It is currently illegal to develop this land as it was designated in 1885 as a Forest Preserve, which is Status 1 land. The Department of Energy designates Status 1 and 2 lands as being avoided for development. Given that fact, why was this project allowed to even start? That should be investigated. Someone dropped the ball at square one. Start a project where is legal in the first place instead of trying to bully taxpayers and trying to mislead everyone. It is not ok. We should not have to spend time like this trying to fight another battle with greedy people who move the lines of legality to suit themselves only.

2. Scientific: Stream ecology will be impacted, animal habitats will not withstand the fluctuations of water flow, trout breeding grounds will be impacted if not lost. They will be destroying habitats of millions of animals. How is that unimportant? 

3. Moral: the project is a lie, this is an add-on project, not a closed loop one. It would have significantly higher impacts than they say, and will cost significantly more. This project is manipulating information and should be stopped altogether and should be penalized for false representation and wasting valuable time of our officials and scientists. It is a major impact and is dressed as a minor one. This is not land for commercial use.

4. Humane: Animals will lose their habitats. Land will be destroyed, Our tourism in the Catskill will be impacted. 

I hate to bore people with reasons, when they are deluded with greed for money, and are propelled by that. Whereas the community at large are not aware or impelled as much and will sorely regret not having made their voices heard because they are not being driven by those same forces of monetary gain.

-- 
Thank you,
Sincerely,
Maya Branman


