

Allison Irwin, Shokan, NY.
Allison Irwin
PO Box 202
Shokan NY 12481

To: Kimberly D. Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A 
Washington, D.C. 20426. 

Docket number P-15056-000 

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing  to say that I am against the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

When I first heard about this project,  I thought about two things.  First, on PBS last week, there was a special on climate change and it stated that deforestation was a really large reason for climate change and it cited all the deforestation in the rain forests other countries over the last several years.  It talked about how re-foresting would help fight climate change.  How can we be doing this project supposedly to help be more environmentally proactive if it would be ripping up forever wild forests and streams?  The second was a speech made by Vice President Kamala Harris in Chicago this past week that stated: "In the past wars were fought over oil.  In the future, wars will be fought about water."  I thought, how can we be even considering a project that would ruin the water in the area now and in the future?  Again, in an effort to be environmentally proactive, they would be ruining the environment from a water perspective also.  This would involve killing fish and other wildlife. 

In our area, we have to obtain permission to do just about anything with our water ecosystem. Home owners have to conform to guidelines to protect the watershed, which ultimately affects the NYC water supply.  How can this project ,which would totally rip up the land are affect the streams that run into the Ashokan Reservoir, be proposed without giving a heads up to the NYC water supply authorities and the community governments and planning boards?  Why would they NOT do that?

Later, I wondered how we would get from the Shokan area over the mountain to Peekamoose /  Sundown  / Grahamsville without going all the way around via 28 to 209 to 55, which is about twice the amount of time.  Watson Hollow Road, the road that passes near Moonhaw, is the only road over that mountain.

This project would devastate our environment, our local communities, and the purity of NYC’s drinking water.  The project might in theory be an environmentally proactive project but at what cost. This will forever ruin protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat..  The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. Please don't destroy this beautiful preserved land.

There would be even MORE environmental devastation after construction is complete.  The Ashokan watershed and its rivers and streams would all be affected. Pumped storage will ruin stream ecology,   aquatic habitats and land habitats.  When the water is pumped up and down in the project, it will affect wildlife and the sediment in connected tributaries.  The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would have farther reaching effects,  affecting the sediment in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir.  

This will affect the NYC water supply! The Ashokan Reservoir supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people.  Because the Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system —it is an “add-on” -- the water fluctuations would increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed.  The Ashokan Reservoir is a valuable asset.  It is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities.  The project in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain.  We already had this happen when the Ashokan Reservoir was constructed 100 years ago. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would have a hard time buying new housing.  Because of the pandemic, housing prices are high and houses are in short supply in Ulster County and the surrounding areas. 

This past year, the entire world shut down and the economy of the area was devastated by the shutdown.  Things are finally starting to open and customers are finally coming out again improving the tourism economy.  In 2019, tourism generated almost 20 percent of the jobs in the Catskill region,  a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. The numbers this year for hiking, biking fishing and other outdoor activities were so much larger this year because of the pandemic.  Experts predict this trend will continue due to the movement of NYC residents to our area.  Please don't let the Premium Energy’s project ruin this revitalized recreation in the Catskills.  

I don't understand why they are not using the Closed-loop pumped system instead of the one they are proposing.  Wouldn't that have a  smaller impact?  . This project to NOT a “closed-loop” project. It is an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks and is NOT the kind of project the country needs right now.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, Docket number P-15056-000.

Sincerely,

Allison Irwin


