

Ginger Strand, Phoenicia, NY.
Secretary Kimberly Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426 

Dear Secretary Bose,

I am writing to raise concerns about Premium Energy's proposal, docket # P-15056, to build a pumped storage hydroelectric plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir as its lower reservoir. This proposal does not meet the FERC standard for granting a preliminary license. As an environmental journalist, I am aware of the critical importance of energy storage to our increasingly renewable grid, and am in favor of new pumped storage plants. However, we should not let our haste to build storage capacity blind us to the problems with this proposal.

Key ways the proposal is deficient:

1. Premium Energy seems completely unaware that their proposed project is situated in a highly protected State Forest Preserve, and--like any conceivable project damming a valley in the Catskill Forest Preserve--would necessitate the taking of state land via eminent domain. The Catskill Forest Preserve, created in 1885, is enshrined in the New York State constitution, which states that the land in the preserve "shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold, or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private." Removing any of these lands from this level of preservation for any purpose requires a state constitutional amendment, voted on and approved by two consecutive sessions of the state legislature, then submitted to a statewide referendum. Of the 2000 amendments proposed in this way since the formation of the Preserve, only 20 have passed. Premium Energy's proposal seems based on the unlikely assumption that such a state constitutional amendment will pass.

2. Premium Energy seems unaware that to develop land in such a highly protected area goes against the Department of Energy's own statement of mission. Any conceivable reservoir project inside the Catskill State Forest Preserve would impinge on highly protected state land in the Catskills that is considered Status 2 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. According to the Department of Energy's own "Hydropower Vision" report of 2016, "areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development." 

3. Premium Energy states that this proposal is for a "closed-loop" project. Clearly they are calling it such because the Department of Energy has an interest in supporting closed loop projects. However, the system Premium Energy describes is NOT  a closed-loop system. It is an add-on project to an existing reservoir that is continuously connected to a naturally flowing water feature. According the Department of Energy Report "A Comparison of the Environmental Effects of Open-Loop and Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower" (2020), add-on systems have initial construction impacts that are lower than open-loop systems, but "operational impacts are still likely to be higher than for closed-loop projects because the add-on project's lower reservoir is still continuously connected to, and may affect, the naturally flowing water feature that was dammed for its original construction." Premium Energy's proposal engages in a concerning level of misdirection and falsification.

4. The naturally flowing water feature that was originally dammed to construct the Ashokan Reservoir is Esopus Creek, which is not only an asset of high environmental value in the Catskills ecosystem, but is part of the New York City water supply, the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and an infrastructure asset worth tens of billions of dollars to the city of New York. The quality of this water supply is governed by a regularly updated Filtration Avoidance Determination issued by the EPA. The most recent EPA FAD of 2017 included the implementation of turbidity reduction measures and the continuation of monitoring of these measures by an expert panel at the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. The fact that Premium Energy appears completely ignorant of these additional protections to the water supply, and has not addressed how turbidity would be affected by a pumped storage project on the reservoir, suggests a total failure to understand both the complex ecosystem, and the complex regulatory environment in which they are proposing to work.

5. That complex regulatory environment also includes the Delaware River Basin Compact, a federal-interstate agency created in 1961, to which many Catskills towns, including the town of Shandaken, home to two of Premium Energy's alternative reservoir sites, are signatories. Article 9, Section 2 of the DRBC states that " The commission may develop and operate, or authorize to be developed and operated, dams and related facilities and appurtenances for the purpose of generating hydroelectric power and hydroelectric energy." At the very least, the failure to notify the DRBC of the plan means that Premium Energy is inadequate on FERC Section 4.32 II C.

6. Premium Energy failed to notify Greene County (inadequate on 4.32 II A), the Greene County Soil and Conservation District (inadequate on 4.32 II C), the town of Hunter (inadequate on 4.32 II D).

7. The application if also deficient in its failure to provide specifications of the existing dam, the dividing weir (of which they seem totally unaware) or the spillway in the existing Ashokan Reservoir (inadequate on 4.81 VII A 1 a-e.

7. A host of other problems with the proposal--blurry maps utilizing outdated topographic views, GPS locations that don't match up with the maps or the narrative--suggest that this proposal was hurriedly and carelessly created. This is not the kind of work that should be allowed to proceed in land as highly protected as the Catskill Forest Preserve and the New York City watershed. I respectfully request that FERC deny this preliminary license application.

Sincerely yours,

Ginger Strand
198 Pantherkill Road
Phoenicia, NY 12464

