

DAVID SHENGOLD, Stone Ridge, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose--

I write to ask that FERC turn down Premium Energy Holdings' request for a preliminary permit for the misguided Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056).
 
The authors of the proposal either don't know or are misrepresenting the location of the proposed project. Well-placed hydroelectric power facilities are clearly key to sustainable energy maintenance, but Premium Energy Holdings-- a California concern--falsely characterizes the target are as being "near" the vital Catskill Forest Preserve. The locations they put forward, and the Ashokan Reservoir--we live a few minutes from Olive, one of the three sites under consideration for the additional reservoir--are indeed at the CFP's very center and are thus protected from commercial exploitation and acquisition by eminent domain by the New York State Constitution. As I understand it the Department of Energy's own policies counsel avoiding development in protected ecosystems such as this remarkably well-preserved area.

In addition, I am deeply concerned about the impact on the sediment levels in the local watershed, including the Esopus Creek, famed for trout fishing and for tubing. We have cousins from Syracuse who visit the area for the trout season and friends, plus relatives from other states and even other countries who come up here to access Hunter Mountain for skiing. They bring revenue to the local motels and beds-and-breakfasts, gas stations, restaurants and sporting goods stores. So not only the natural beauty of this area is under jeopardy but--multiplying our acquaintances and relatives' examples by the tens of thousands--the vibrancy and viability of its tourism industry. 

Add on the possible threat--since the proposal as I understand it does not in fact constitute an ecologically sound closed-loop system as it claims to--to the water supply of the 9 million residents of New York City, where we also own property. As it is, the reservoir outflow's turbidity has been an issue of much recent concern by local residents and New York City officials as well. Why on earth should a potential additional threat to that drinking water be fast tracked? Premium Energy’s flawed and clearly mendacious proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056 must be turned down!

Many thanks for your attention in this matter.

David Shengold
64 Buck Road 
Stone Ridge NY 12484
(845) 687-2417


