

Joe White, Kerhonkson, NY.
DOCKET# P-15056-000

I am writing to voice my strong opposition to the Premium Energy Holdings proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. DOCKET# P-15056. 

The company in question is being duplicitous about its intentions in order to ram through this shoddy project.
Premium is claiming to be “closed-loop.” project. 
Closed loop projects are considered to have smaller environmental impact and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. Contrarily, projects where an upper reservoir is added to an existing lower reservoir are known as
“add-on” projects; that’s what this really is. They are lying.  

This project will be devastating, not only to The Catskill Preserve, but also to its wildlife, the surrounding water systems, all the residents of the area, the thousands upon thousands of tourists who visit this pristine and beautiful area every year (which is an economic boon to the area) and the millions of New York City residents, whose drinking water will be adversely effected. 

According to the DEP. The Ashokan Reservoir and watershed, provides 40% of NYC’s water, a water supply that provides 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people. This valuable capital asset, represents $1.7 billion since the 1990s alone. Another reason that this economically unsound project should be denied.

‘The Environmental Species Act’ protects much of the wildlife on this preserve. Which is yet another reason to deny Premium.

As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the Catskill Preserve lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest 
lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”
FERC cannot selectively choose if they will abide by the NY State Constitution.

It is for all these reasons (stated above) that I vehemently oppose this proposal. It must be struck down. I Vote NO!

Best,

Joe White
20 Tilly Rd
Kerhonkson NY 12446


