

Laura OConnell, Chichester, NY.
Hello, I am writing as a resident of Shandaken, NY to express my opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny their application for a preliminary permit.

If constructed, the proposed project would damage local lands, roads, and streams in a way that would permanently damage a crucial piece of the Catskills. Route 214, a scenic byway and one of the sites the company is exploring, would almost certainly have to be re-routed which would be devastating to tourism and outdoor activities. Route 214 is a key access road for skiing at Hunter and Windham mountains, and is the only place to access world famous Catskills ice climbing - limiting traffic or re-routing this road would remove access to hundreds of ice climbing routes within Stony Clove and Deep Notch which would negatively impact outdoor enthusiasts and ice climbers (including myself), local guiding and rental businesses, and local bars and restaurants.

If constructed, the proposed project would also be illegal. New York State is the largest property owner within the Catskills and pursuant to Article XIV, Section 1 of the New York State constitution, the lands of the state “shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private” - the proposed upper reservoir would be located within the lands that this article applies to. With this in mind, even allowing for preliminary permits would mean a pointless disruption to important part of the Catskills, as the project would not be approved.

Even allowing for preliminary permits would negatively impact Route 214, a critical and scenic byway connecting towns with outdoor activities, would lead to a loss of tourist dollars and business revenue, and could have impact on streams that would affect fishing, boating, and swimming. I ask you to consider all these factors and deny the preliminary permits for this ill-planned project.

