

Nathaniel Gillespie, Phoenicia, NY.
(Continuation of Opposition Letter)

The proposed reservoir’s disruption of the natural sediment regime of Woodland Creek and Esopus Creek is not limited to water, but will eliminate many miles of important trout habitat needed by both of these economically important and historically famous fisheries.  Woodland Creek itself serves as an important and valued recreational resource in its current state for me and my family, but the proposed reservoir will cause irreparable harm to this this stream, eliminating 3 miles of it beneath the reservoir.  Woodland creek serves as an important spawning tributary to Esopus Creek, and the proposed reservoir would damage the valuable recreational trout fishery on Esopus Creek, as it provides critical spawning and rearing habitat for wild brook, brown and rainbow trout which migrate annually from the Ashokan Reservoir and the Esopus Creek to use these fertile headwaters to spawn.  A proposed reservoir at 300 feet in height would form a complete fish passage barrier to upstream movement and migration of trout and other fish species.  The migratory trout of the Ashokan Reservoir/Esopus Creek system is a world-famous wild rainbow trout fishery that generates significant dollars in local economic activity as a recreation destination, but the proposed dam but would force the complete loss of access for trout to more than 5 miles of Woodland Creek, which is classified as Trout Spawning by New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYS DEC), and 8 miles of tributary habitat, which is classified as Brook Trout habitat by NYC DEC.  This complete severance of more than 13 miles of trout habitat to spawning and rearing habitat of the larger Esopus Creek system would negatively impact the trout population and degrade this popular and acclaimed recreational fishery. 

If the proposed project is permitted to be constructed, it would also degrade the Esopus Creek fishery downstream from altered water temperature, sediment regime and water quality impacts from the proposed reservoir construction and operation.  The reservoir would damage this highly-valued coldwater aquatic ecosystem and trout fishery with increased summer water temperatures caused by solar radiation of the reservoir surface.  Has the applicant recognized to the potential negative effects of the proposed pumped storage reservoir on the Woodland Creek, Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir and their cherished wild trout fishery?  How would these be mitigated? They cannot be replaced.

As New York State begins to activate on its statewide decarbonization goals, this proposed project would apply to destroy hundreds of acres of intact, highly functioning forest and soils that are sequestering carbon.  Has the applicant defined the amount of carbon loss that would occur from the elimination of hundreds of acres of forest for the two proposed reservoir pools, the thousands of acres of forest and soil disturbance from associated development or roads and infrastructure, and the installation of many miles of powerline infrastructure?  As a society, we need to protect and increase the health and function of these forests so they can help our country sequester carbon and ultimately mitigate climate change.  What are the carbon costs to the state for the construction of the 300 foot tall concrete dams? What are the carbon costs associated with the electricity needed to pump water to the upper reservoir over the life of the project?  All of these questions need to be answered before claiming the project will not be contributing to carbonization of the atmosphere and the associated negative impacts on New York State from a changing climate.

Finally, Woodland Valley and the Upper Esopus Creek are confirmed be a circular drainage formed by an ancient asteroid impact, representing a unique geologic phenomenon of global significance (NASA 1992), but Premium Energy Holding’s proposal for a potential pumped storage reservoir, tunnel drilling, infrastructure and associated land disturbance fails to recognize this outstanding and rare designation. The Panther Mountain circular drainage, formed approximately 375 million years ago, represents one of only a handful of such places on earth.  The Panther Mountain watershed including Woodland Valley should be designated a world heritage site and be afforded the protection from large scale development as proposed by Premium Energy Holding.

For all of these reasons described above, I urge you to reject Premium Energy Holding’s proposed preliminary application for Docket P-15056-000, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

Respectfully,
Nathaniel Gillespie

