

Nathaniel Gillespie, Phoenicia, NY.
April 9, 2021

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to voice strong opposition to Docket P-15056-000 Ashokan Pumped Storage Project submitted by Premium Energy Holding, LLC.  Our family would be directly impacted by the proposed reservoir planned for Woodland Valley.  Our property at 624 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia, New York, held in the family and occupied since the 1830’s, would be sacrificed for the construction of the proposed reservoir.  I am a member of Woodland Valley Farm, LLC, 20 acres in size, and my extended family owns Woodland Valley Woods, LLC, approximately 105 acres in size, and Botchford Heritage Preservation, LLC, approximately 60 acres in size, which are under permanent conservation easement with New York City Department of Environmental Protection.  These properties are bordered by New State Forever Wild Lands and other lands owned by NYC DEP.  All of these land designations would be make it illegal to obtain under eminent domain and would be illegal to develop under current New York State Law.  The proposal is ill-conceived, would pose great risk to New York City’s unfiltered drinking water system, would irreparably harm local communities, would significantly impact valuable recreational fisheries and the local tourism economy, would negatively impact New York’s decarbonization objectives on balance, and would degrade an irreplaceable valley of global significance.  For these many significant impacts and flaws, I urge you to reject Premium Energy Holding’s preliminary permit request.

Beyond the loss of our family property invaluable to me and my family, Premium Energy Holdings, LLC proposed reservoir construction and operation would generate unacceptable risk to New York City DEP’s unfiltered water via numerous acute short-term and chronic long-term impacts. Our property, most of which is under Conservation Easement with NYC DEP to protect quality, and the larger Woodland Creek watershed, currently serve an important role in maintaining the unfiltered water supply for New York City via their contribution to the high- water quality currently found in Woodland Valley Creek, several tributaries and wetlands located on the property, and the local groundwater sources.  The proposed reservoir and pumped storage operation would highly alter and negatively impact all of these important hydrological resources.  Construction of the reservoir dam, associated blasting for the dam and connecting underground tunnels, land clearing and clearcutting to remove standing vegetation beneath the reservoir pool, and roadbuilding to replace many miles of Woodland Valley Road would all cause significant fine sediment, turbidity and water quality impacts to Woodland Creek, Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir for many years.  The proposed construction of a receiving reservoir adjacent to the Ashokan Reservoir would double the impact via these acute disturbances and associated turbidity to the New York City unfiltered drinking water supply, therefore the proposal is far too risky to approve.

But the major water quality impacts would not be limited to the 5 or more years of construction and disturbance: the proposed reservoir site within Woodland Valley is highly problematic.  This proposed site contains numerous natural deposits of glacial clay, which when eroded periodically by Woodland Creek produce high levels of turbidity within Woodland Creek and Esopus Creek.  The daily fluctuation of the proposed Woodland Valley Reservoir to serve the pumped storage needs would erode and resuspend fine sediment and colloidal clay found in numerous naturally-occurring glacial lacustrine clay deposits throughout the stream, floodplain and valley.  The proposal has not identified this risk to Ashokan reservoir, which provides 40% of the unfiltered drinking water to 9 million New York State residents.  Operation of the proposed hydropower pump storage reservoir typically results in reservoir water levels fluctuating greatly over the course of a day in response to energy needs.  This frequent reservoir fluctuation, however, will cause bank erosion, and stream bank and stream bed erosion by Woodland Creek at the reservoir inlet will contribute to much greater and more frequent inputs of fine sediment and turbidity into the proposed reservoir, Woodland Creek, and ultimately into Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir.  

The proposed reservoir site is currently unstable and prone to erosion and heavy turbidity events.  The Ashokan Stream Management Program’s Woodland Creek Stream Management Plan from 2015 https://www.dropbox.com/s/bnw0t97tb7cfb1j/Woodland%20Creek%20SMP.pdf?dl=0
determined that 49% of the total stream length of Woodland Creek was not stable, but needed assisted restoration or full restoration in order to reduce bank erosion and stream instability. Creation of the proposed reservoir, a massive disruption to stream equilibrium, will increase erosion rates of stream banks upstream of the proposed reservoir pool, thereby increasing fine sediment and turbidity inputs into Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir.   The Ashokan Stream Management Program’s Woodland Creek Stream Management Plan notes each of the 7 management units along 6.3 miles of Woodland Creek assessed in 2015 contain multiple deposits of lacustrine clay, but these colloidal clay deposits are particularly problematic for NYC DEP reservoir management in the Ashokan, and heavy amounts of these suspended clay particles have necessitated the use of alum by NYC DEP to ensure clarity for drinking water delivery over time, therefore, these clay deposits will be mobilized with much greater frequency from greater stream instability.  How would the proposed hydropower pump storage project therefore manage or mitigate chronic turbidity impacts that would risk significantly threatening the ability of NYC DEP to achieve its drinking water supply objectives, and meet the terms of the 2017 Filtration Avoidance Determination? 

(letter continued)

