

Gail Margulis, Phoenicia, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First St. NE, Room 1A Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydro electric power plant in the heart of the Catskills Mountains in New York. I desperately urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment. 
I am a resident here and am thus learning as much as I can about both hydroelectric power and the appropriateness of such a plant in this place, which is protected by its "forever wild" status. It says in the NYS Constitution that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Given this, and the special, uniqueness of the environment- The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat which is very rare and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.
Even once construction is complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir. There are other reasons, including the fact that I, and my neighbors, as residents of one of the proposed sites- would be displaced and our community would be destroyed. I have no idea how we would be able to  secure new housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County, and for homes that are available, prices are through the roof. 
I sincerely hope that our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources does not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.
I implore you to do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Gail Margulis


