

Annarose Lipkin, Chichester, NY.
Dear Kimberly D. Bose and the Federal Energy Commission,

I am a resident of Chichester, Ulster County, New York just south of a potential dam in a project proposed by Premium Energy Holdings, under review by FERC (docket #P-15056-000). I must state my opposition of the granting of even a preliminary permit. There are many problems with the proposed hydropower plant currently under consideration. It appears there was little consideration of a multitude of factors that make the Catskills Park an inappropriate place for this project. Below I list a few of them.

First of all, the Catskills are a State preserve protected by the NY State Constitution. The Catskills Forest Preserve, in the midst of which this project would be situated (the project states falsely that it lies outside of the protected Catskills Preserve, but it does not), is considered status 1 land under the USGS gap analysis program according to the US Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Report. Stoney Clove Stream (and the entire Ashokan Reservoir connective tissue of streams and rivers)is a very important and living resource for wildlife that depend on it for survival, the whole reason the preserve exists to begin with.

This proposal is both deficient and misleading. The system is not a closed loop as stated. As proposed it is actually an open loop system. The damage from this kind of system on the environment would be quite significant and destructive to the surrounding area for wildlife as well as for the local economy. Giving an example of its impact on humans and nature together, it contributes to the life of aquatic organisms that feed trout, who then in turn supply the surrounding area with fisherman who contribute to the economies of many towns and hamlets involved in the ecosystem. It is a source of food and water for the deer, bear, coyote, other smaller animals and birds of the area as well.

There would creation of increased water turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir, which is dealing with these problems already and would negatively impact the water system that serves as NYC’s drinking water. 

I support the movement away from fossil fuel reliance towards renewable energy, and understand that hydropower is a strong component of this progress. The Catskill region however is the wrong placement for such projects. Please do not allow this project to continue.

Sincerely,
Annarose Lipkin

