

Linda  Armstrong, Olivebridge, NY.
I am writing in response to the proposed Ashokan pump storage project to be located in the Town of Olive, docket number P-15056-000.  The preliminary proposal was poorly thought out. It should be denied because of lack of facts and a general lack of merit. It should be rejected for legal reasons, for the impact on citizens’ use of the land for recreation, for the impact on a unique and important non fragmented ecosystem, for disruption of stream ecology, and for the impact on a tourist industry.
The legal ramifications of allowing a private company to ignore the New York State Constitution sets the stage for a destructive precedent. I, and my family, should be protected by our NY Constitution. I chose to live in the Town of Olive and raise my family there because of the protected land. My family makes use of the hiking trails in the Forever Wild Land and State Forest land. We also recreate on the Esopus. As bird watchers we spend considerable amount of time exploring the many species of birds in the protected Catskill Park. The Park is protected as a unique set of wilderness mountains in NY State. As a protected ecosystem, the Park harbors high elevation spruce/fir woodlands and the birds and animal species that inhabit these. The Park also protects the mixed hardwood forests. Important to each of these areas, the fact that they are protected in our Constitution makes the Catskill Park one of the only areas in the state where woodlands are not fragmented. Research has shown that fragmentation creates a vulnerability that disrupts the animal inhabitants. Research has used the wood thrush as an example. When wood thrush territory is fragmented the birds have a significantly poorer rate of reproduction. Bicknell’s Thrush inhabit the currently non fragmented high elevation areas in the Catskill Park. The negative impact on the ecosystems and its inhabitants will impact the local ecology of the Park, and my, and my family’s use of the area. Our mountain hiking will be impacted, our snowshoeing in the mountains will be impacted. Our mountain biking and fishing will be impacted, all in negative ways.
Turbidity naturally occurs in the Esopus with heavy storms or seasonal runoff. This impacts trout particularly. This project will significantly increase the levels and frequency of turbidity in the Esopus. As a result of stream degradation, the stream ecology and trout populations will be negatively impacted. Bald Eagles hunt the Esopus and need clear water for spotting fish. Thus the wildlife, and my family's use of the Esopus, for recreating, and particularly for fly fishing, will be negatively impacted. I chose to live here in the Town of Olive because these wild areas are protected by the State Constitution. Protected land should remain protected, that is the definition of the word. Projects such as this pump storage one need to be located on land that is not so special and important for ecosystems, recreating, and functioning for the local tourist industry. The Catskill Park is protected legally for good reasons. Energy projects need to be located on non protected land. That way green energy could be made use of, but not at the expense of unique lands in our state. I represent but one family, however my family is typical of countless people and families that recreate in the Catskill Park.
There is a successful tourist industry in this area. Countless people from New York City and New Jersey travel here to look at the fall colors, to ski at the ski centers, to hike and bird watch, and to enjoy the lovely vistas and clean air. Disruptions of roads, the presence of new high tension wires, the creation of a new reservoir which will actually look more like a huge bathtub that is filled and emptied  on a daily basis, and the years of infrastructure creation, could have a negative impact on the tourist industry. The need for energy and energy storage, is a fact, but there must be a consideration of obtaining this energy or energy storage in an area that is not so unique that it is legally protected by a State Constitution.

I request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny Premium Energy Holding’s application for a preliminary permit.


Linda Armstrong
188 Grassy Ridge Rd
Olivebridge, NY 12461
P-15056:000


