

David G Carroll, New Paltz, NY.
I am writing in response to the proposed Ashokan pump storage project to be located in the Town of Olive, docket number P-15056-000.  The preliminary proposal fails any basic “due diligence” test.  It should be denied because it ignores many basic critical facts pertaining to the proposed site. The impacts on a protected wilderness, on important recreational resources, on an important tourism industry, and perhaps most importantly on the availability of drinking water for 9 million people have all been ignored in this badly done proposal.
The Catskill Park is home to protected ecosystems including plants and endangered animals.  This protection is established in the New York State Constitution, and overriding that protection would set a dangerous precedent. 
Turbidity naturally occurs in the Esopus with heavy storms or seasonal runoff.  This ill-conceived project would make such turbidity a daily event.  The proposed lower reservoir is the Ashoken Reservoir, a major source of water for the 9 million people in New York City.  Currently this is one of the few major water systems which can operate without filtration requirements, but this project would destroy that.  A private for-profit company has NO right to inflict such a staggering costs on a unit of government while they pocket some profits. 
The tourist industry is critically important to this area. Many people from New York City and throughout the Northeast travel here to hike and bird watch, to see the fall foliage, and to ski at the ski centers.  Disruptions of roads, the presence of new high tension wires, the creation of a new reservoir which will actually look more like a huge bathtub that is filled and emptied  on a daily basis, and the years of infrastructure creation, could have a negative impact on the tourist industry. The need for energy and energy storage, is a fact, but there must be a consideration of obtaining this energy or energy storage in an area that is not so unique that it is legally protected by a State Constitution.

I request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny Premium Energy Holding’s application for a preliminary permit.

David G. Carroll
11 Rousner Ln.
New Paltz, NY 12561
P-15056-000


