

Philip Andelman, Chichester, NY.
Growing up I always dreamed of owning a home that became more than simply a place to live.  I wanted a place to create not just a lifetime of memories for myself but for generations of friends and family.  My family had traveled consistently throughout my childhood and I was always envious of those who had homes in which their parents (or grandparents!) grew up.

When I moved to the Catskills sixteen years ago, I didn’t have the means to achieve this but as I looked around at houses to rent, I was led by a realtor to Stoney Clove Lane.  She explained that a cabin was about to be available.  I couldn’t look inside now as it was occupied, but I could see the exterior. I didn’t even need to.  Simply driving up the road, a chill ran through my body and I realized I had found someplace truly magical.  I agreed to a year lease without ever stepping foot in the cabin.

Within two years I had become dear friends with my neighbors on all three sides.  Across the road was an incredible psychologist from the city who spent her weekends there. To my left, Jeremy Bernstein, born and raised in the Catskills, his father had founded the only private school in Woodstock in the early 60s.  Jeremy went on to become one of my closest friends, best man at my wedding, and eventually built my child his house (but I get ahead of myself).  To my right was Chuck Lankester, a fascinating man who worked in the UN for over forty years, helping shape global environmental policies, including the Kyoto Protocol, portions of which were penned on Stoney Clove Lane!  He had built his home from scratch singlehandedly back in the early seventies, over the course of three years, assisted on weekends by his two teenage daughters.  From cutting down trees to breaking rocks to create the foundation of the driveway, they worked tirelessly on this magical home they dubbed Chalabin: smaller than a chalet, bigger than a cabin.

As Chuck thought of retiring and moving South, I began thinking of marriage.  Before long, I had bought my neighbor’s home, my very first home purchase, and exchanged marital vows on the balcony.  Jeremy worked tirelessly to overhaul the house, and a little over a year later our son Woody was born.  As he got bigger and we started thinking of other children, Chalabin began to feel too small for us.  Jeremy helped us build a second home on the property and unwittingly I was slowly beginning to create the dream property I had yearned for my whole childhood.  

We’ve celebrated birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, and global pandemics in this home.  We've hosted celebrated writers and academics, painters, musicians, and filmmakers.  We’ve endured days without power where my son helped me melt snow to get drinking water, and we’ve installed a swimming pool for days when it’s just too darn hot to head down to the swimming hole.  We’ve made new friends on the road and kept in touch with old ones (Chuck came back last year with his wife and daughter to visit!).  

The idea that this home of mine--and this community which has thrived long before I arrived--is in peril breaks my heart.  It is so rare to find a place this magical, neighbors this loving and caring, a peaceful haven so pure.  Please, I implore you, do not mercilessly destroy this.  

Thank you very much for your understanding.  

Sincerely, 


Philip Nathan Andelman

