

rebecca underwood, west shokan, NY.

11 Hanover Meadows
West Shokan, NY 12494
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A 
Washington, D.C. 20426. 
Docket number P-15056-000

March 10, 2021

Dear Ms. Bose, 
I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant at the Ashokan Reservoir in New York’s Catskill Mountains. 
The Premium Energy Holdings project is ill conceived and unwelcome. As a 25-year resident of Moonhaw Road, one of the proposed access roads for the proposal, I can attest to the problems increasing traffic to this road would present. There is substantial pedestrian activity on our road and, with just the recent increase in FEDEX, UPS and other delivery services brought on by the pandemic, there have been many close calls between pedestrians and cars and these larger trucks. Moonhaw Road is not a wide thoroughfare. Our community will not tolerate a proposal that paints our area as sparcely-populated and defines Moonhaw Road as an “access road”.
I hope FERC will reject this proposal and get behind projects that uplift communities and give green initiatives a good name. In addition to local impact, there are several reasons why this project comes up short on an environmental impact level.
On the local level, the property values and tax revenues of the area could be severely impacted. At a time when people are becoming increasingly educated about the importance of the human impact on our natural surroundings this project will have many vocal opponents. Using terminology drawing on “imminent domain” strategies is irresponsible on the part of Premium Holdings. This community has a long history with regards to the imminent domain invoked to construct the Ashokan reservoir.
The area around the reservoir has been so jealously protected in all my years residing here: every building permit, septic system and construction project is met with scrutiny in an effort to guard against any contamination or mishap befalling the drinking water for New York City. As a community we understand the importance of our stewardship of this resource.
As for its standing as a responsible project to generate green-power, the proposal, as described is an “open-loop” project. This is not a good thing. If it moves forward, it will require the construction of an entirely new reservoir to even function and that water has to be pumped to the upper basin during non-peak hours represents the least practical and most disruptive and inefficient solution to a problem that may not even exist. Early projections by Premium Energy explain that the plant would expend 2/3rd of the energy it produces just to operate. In the process, the fossil fuels required undertake construction and the methane released from the proposed new reservoir have been left out of the proposal.  
The proposed project invites problems which would affect 9.5 million New Yorkers down-state who currently enjoy some of the best unfiltered water in the nation. As I understand it, the existing reservoir has an upper basin designed to catch sediment and keep it from the lower basin. The cycling of water to a third basin can only invite contamination from disturbed sediment. I can say from experience that the taste of New York City drinking water is absolutely affected by even subtle changes to these reservoirs as discussed in a Dec 14 article in Patch (https://patch.com/new-york/new-york-city/tap-water-tasting-funny-nyc-heres-why).
This proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, put forth without prior warning to the affected area or to the city, is not a local project grown out of a community’s needs and demands, it is proposed by a company 3000 miles away prospecting with no understanding of the area’s environmental, historical or economic circumstances.
As FERC advances projects in the interest of alternative energy independence in the days and decades to come, it should support those proposals that feel right and organic and sensible for the affected communities so the nation can get behind this essential move away from fossil fuels. 

Thank you for your time,


Beck Underwood
 




