

Delia Kulukundis, Phoenicia, NY.
I am writing to oppose the Ashokan Hydroelectric pumped storage facility that Premium Energy Holdings has proposed in the Catskill region of New York (P-15056-000). 

I volunteer with the New York - New Jersey Trail Conference to maintain one of the trails accessed from the Woodland Valley Campground within the Catskill Forest Preserve, in an area that would be flooded by the proposed upper reservoir of this project. Our public campgrounds, trails, and streams are some of the most popular in the Catskill Forest Preserve, and attract people from all walks of life, including anglers, endurance athletes, thru-hikers on the Long Path, young families, and people simply looking for a change of scenery from urban life. New York State parks, trails, campgrounds, and historic sites saw a record 78 million visits in 2020, surpassing the previous record set in 2019 [1]. Our public lands were ever more important during a year of grief and isolation, and public campgrounds are a vital resource in the movement to make outdoor recreation more welcoming to people of color and other marginalized groups. Flooding Woodland Valley to create an upper reservoir for open-loop pumped hydropower energy storage would destroy this beloved resource.

In all three of the proposed locations, creating an upper reservoir by flooding the valley would destroy homes and communities, remove access to our public lands, and destroy the livelihoods of people who work adjacent to tourism in the region. The alternative site for the reservoir in Lanesville would destroy the recreational resources of the Devil’s Tombstone Campground and the fly fishing along Stony Clove. The proposed site in West Shokan would also destroy a residential center and a popular trailhead at the end of Moonhaw Road. 

All three of the proposed locations would encroach on the boundaries of the Catskill Forest Preserve, land that is designated by the New York State Constitution as “forever wild.” Encroaching on the forest preserve is difficult, as it should be: it requires a state constitutional amendment, two consecutive votes in state legislature, and a referendum. I urge you to reject this project swiftly, and not waste the time of your own agency and that of our state agencies tasked with protecting our public lands. 

[1] https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-historic-78-million-visits-state-parks-2020

