

Doris Cheng, Chichester, NY.
As a resident of Chichester, NY in Ulster County, I am writing to oppose the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings. While I support our nation’s transition to renewable energy and recognize the many benefits of hydropower, I believe the Catskills region is not the right location for such a project given significant impacts to state preserved forest land, streams, species, and the New York City water supply. Much of the harm would be unlawful and in violation of the New York State Constitution. Additionally, Premium Energy does not provide the kind of innovation sought by the Department of Energy given that its proposal is deficient and misleading. 

Premium Energy’s claim that it will build a “closed loop” system is false; closer study indicates their proposal is actually an “open loop” system, an “add on” project where an upper reservoir would be added to an already existing lower reservoir connected to a natural water source. As you know, the environmental and aquatic impact of such an open loop system would be significant and damaging. 

The company also falsely states that the project will take place outside the boundaries of the protected Catskills Preserve. Closer study indicates that its proposed sites are actually located squarely within the Catskills Forest Preserve (established 1885). This area is protected under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, which deems the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Any change in the management of State Forest Preserves have to be passed by constitutional amendment, which involves both state legislative approval and a public referendum. Otherwise, it is unlawful and unconstitutional.

Consider also the fact that, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. According the US Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision report, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

I believe the protected status of the Catskills Forest Preserve; the misleading nature of Premium Energy’s proposal; and DoE’s mandate to avoid Status 1 land are all reasons to disqualify Premium Energy Holdings from receiving a preliminary permit.

Sincerely,

Doris Cheng


