

Phoebe Jones, Philadelphia, PA.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE
Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Dear Kimberly D. Bose,

I am writing to express my strong opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ plan to build a hydroelectric plant in the Ashokan Reservoir region of Ulster County.

As my husband, in-laws, and several members of our extended family have indicated in their own comments, our family has owned a house in Woodland Valley for more than 75 years. The house and the valley it sits in are a family heirloom. While we own the house, the valley and its natural and beauty are accessible to all and are widely utilized. The state campground at the end of Woodland Valley Road, which would become inaccessible if Premium Energy Holdings’ plan comes to fruition, is an affordable way for the public to enjoy the idyllic mountain air, water, hiking, and fishing in Woodland Valley. It attracts thousands of visitors annually who bring with them a significant positive economic impact on the surrounding communities and the businesses that call those communities home. Without those visitors and the others who rent houses in the valley, these businesses and the economy of Phoenicia and the surrounding communities would suffer tremendously. They depend on tourism for their survival, and the tourism is dependent on the area’s natural beauty. 

Even conducting a study on the feasibility of such a short-sighted project would cause serious harm to the environment and natural beauty of the region. Building the temporary roads mentioned in Premium Energy Holdings’ filing will create air, noise, and water pollution and damage the environment.

Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to use eminent domain to seize privately owned land is inappropriate. They are a private, for-profit entity asking the state to use a provision intended for the public good of all citizens in order to increase their own private profit. Moreover, nearly 75% of the power generated by the proposed plant will go toward running the plant, leaving very little to supplement the existing power grid.

Even if there is a gain in terms of cheaper or additional energy, which seems far-fetched based on the proposal, that gain would be vastly outweighed by the economic cost of acquiring the privately-owned land, the negative economic impact on the surrounding communities, the negative environmental impact of destroying the natural flow of the Woodland Valley Creek, and the destruction and loss of one of the most beautiful and peaceful places in all of the United States: Woodland Valley, New York.

For these reasons, I urge the FERC to stop the wasteful, unnecessary destruction of Woodland Valley before it begins. Deny Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal before it ruins the quality of life, livelihoods, and well-being of the people of the region and the land itself.

Sincerely,

Phoebe Jones 




