

Drew Boggess, Shokan, NY.
Comments concerning FERC Project No. P-15056-000

I am asking FERC to deny the application for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan pumped storage project submitted by Premium Energy Holdings on January 29, 2021.  This project application has many severe technical errors in  it.  I will only address a couple of them in this comment.  It is difficult to determine if the applicant is out-and-out lying, or is incompetent, or simply failed to adequately do proper research for this application.

First, on page 11 of the application, the applicant says the system they are proposing is a closed-loop system.  This is blatantly wrong.  The Ashokan reservoir was built approximately 115 years ago and provides drinking water to New York City.  The Esopus creek flows into the western basin of the reservoir along with several small to meadium streams.  The Esopus creek then flows out of the eastern basin of the reservoir.  Approximately 40% of New York City’s clean drinking water flows through the Ashokan reservoir.  So, the system they are proposing is actually an open-loop system.  And as you know, DoE encourages the use of closed-loop systems for pumped storage, not open-loop systems.

 Second, on page 13, 2. A, the applicant indicates the pumping of 15.800 acre-ft would cause the reservoir surface variation of 2 ft based on a reservoir surface area of 8300 acres.  Again, the applicant didn’t do their homework, because they failed to understand how the Ashokan reservoir works.  The Ashokan reservoir has two distinct basins with a dividing weir between them.  The Western basin (this is the basin the applicant indicates pumping will occur) is designed as a settling basin to reduce turbidly in the water before flowing into the eastern basin and on to New York City.  So, water flows from the western basin to the eastern basin and cannot flow in the opposite direction.  Therefore, when calculating the variation of the surface level you must use the surface area of the western basin which is 3106 acres at full capacity.  When pumping 15,800 acre-ft the surface level variation of the western basin would be 5.09 ft.   Also, the western basin has a volume of 143,700 acre-ft when full, which means every day the pump storage system would be pumping about 11% of the western basin volume at full capacity.   These numbers only get worse when the western basin is not full, which is most of the time.

If the applicant can make these serious technical errors at this level of preliminary concept, how can they possibly be trusted to design a system without major flaws?


