

Karen Charman, Shandaken, NY.
Dear FERC,

I have been a full-time resident in Shandaken, NY for the last 21 years, and I am writing to respectfully express my strong opposition to Premium Energy’s proposal to build a pumped storage hydropower plant in our area. I understand the need to move away from fossil fuels to counter global warming and am an ardent proponent of clean, renewable energy. However, the proposed project is totally inappropriate for this area for numerous reasons, a few of which I will mention below.

Premium Energy proposes to build its project in the middle of New York City’s watershed, the Catskill Park and Forest Preserve—priceless public resources. Ninety percent of New York City’s water comes from the Catskill/Delaware ¬¬¬water system, the largest unfiltered water supply in the country, providing 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people. The Ashokan Reservoir, which Premium Energy is proposing to use as its lower reservoir, provides about 40 percent of the city’s daily drinking water. The pumped storage project proposes to build an upper reservoir, in one of three places: along the Stony Clove in Lanesville, along Woodland Valley Stream in Phoenicia, or in Olive by flooding homes on Moonhaw Road. The Ashokan already has problems with silt buildup. Pumping water back and forth from these upper reservoirs would add to the turbidity of the Ashokan, degrading the quality of New York City’s drinking water.

Pumped storage projects are also known to damage stream ecology, with negative impacts on both aquatic and land habitats. Water from an upper reservoir either on the Stony Clove or in Woodland Valley would travel back to the Ashokan Reservoir via the Esopus Creek. The Esopus is a major trout habitat and world class trout fishing stream that attracts fly fishermen from all over the world. Degradation or loss of trout habitat in the Esopus would also cause economic harm to our area.
 
The Catskills Forest Preserve is designated in Article XIV of the New York State Constitution as lands that “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The U.S. Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision states that “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” Since the Catskills are a State Forest Preserve, the land that makes up the Forest Preserve is classified as Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. Therefore, the entire Catskill Forest Preserve must be removed from consideration of Premier Energy’s proposed pumped storage hydropower project.

Thank you for your consideration.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Charman


