Chester Karwatowski

111 High Point Mountain Road

West Shokan, NY 12494

April 8, 2021

RE: FERC Docket # P-15056 – Ashokan Pumped Storage Project

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to voice strong opposition to Docket P-15056, the Ashokan
Pumped Storage Project submitted by Premium Energy Holding, LLC. I
request that you deny this preliminary permit application immediately.

As a resident and small business owner in West Shokan for over 30 years,
I will be directly impacted by the proposed project throughout the
proposal and development phases as well as during ongoing operations.
Our B&B, Ashokan Dreams, overlooks the west basin of the Ashokan
Reservoir. We start and end each day looking out over the entire length
of the upper basin of this reservoir from the Esopus Creek to the
dividing weir. Our B&B is housed in a barn built by the Eckert Brothers
in 1820. The Eckerts built 2 barns, this one survived, the other one was
destroyed for the building of the Ashokan Reservoir. We have a fishing
boat on the Ashokan Reservoir in West Shokan as do hundreds of other
residents who frequently and safely use the Reservoir for fishing. The
proposed infrastructure development and power lines will be visible and
impact and harm not only our business and community, but all visitors to
the new Ashokan Rail Trail (ART) which runs directly along the north
eastern shore of the Ashokan Reservoir. There were over 200,000 visitors
to the ART in 2020.

I understand that FERC does not normally deny a preliminary permit, but
this applicant has not met a minimum standard to achieve legal and
regulatory approvals, nor to deal with environmental issues their
proposal will create, nor have they presented a design that is realistic
nor that meets modern design best practices for a closed loop pump
storage system. I also understand that the impact to my property value,
to my personal quality of life and experiences or my safety or the
safety of the community, as well as the disruptions to my business,
visitors and the community that has been disrupted for over 100 years by
the building and operations of the current Ashokan Reservoir, does not
warrant stopping this proposal at this phase but I appreciate your
consideration of these issues.
In addition to being a resident of this community for over 40 years, I
am also a board member of the Ashokan-Pepacton Watershed Chapter of
Trout Unlimited, an Intervenor in this process along with the NY State
Council of Trout Unlimited (TU). TU is committed to conserving,
protecting, and restoring cold water fisheries and their ecosystems. I
am also an Executive Committee member of the Ashokan Watershed Stream
Management Plan (AWSMP) Stakeholder Council. This organization delivers
stream management programs in the Ashokan Reservoir watershed in
accordance with the Watershed Memorandum of Agreement and the Filtration
Avoidance Determination for the NYC Water Supply. These activities and
experiences inform my understanding of the environmental and regulatory
issues this project proposal presents and therefore I offer my comments.

A legal review of this proposal, a proposal that depends upon the taking
of NYS Forest Preserve Lands that are protected by the NYS Constitution
and the use and taking of NYC Watershed lands that are also protected
and regulated, appears to present insurmountable legal hurdles. Adding
the need for DEC permitting of operations that will disrupt the already
fragile geological structures of this region and the known issues with
glacial clays, and thereby disrupt and harm the wild fisheries and the
water supply for 9 million people demonstrates that that this is a
poorly conceived proposal that should not be allowed to proceed at this
phase by the precedents established by FERC. A review of the failed
Prattsville Pumped Storage Project, No. 2729 on the NYC Schoharie
Reservoir in the Catskills illuminates the issues and the probabilities
of receiving needed permits within a critical water supply ecosystem.
One of the most significant ecological and health risks in this Water
Supply is turbidity. Turbidity is a product of the geology of the
Catskills. It is insurmountable and has been a product of the erosive
formation of the Catskills over the last 10,000 years. Introducing more
turbidity or disrupting the natural cycles of turbidity will affect not
only the environment and fisheries, but also the NYC water supply and
potentially the water supplies of communities dependent upon the Hudson
River. The management of this unfiltered water supply is guided by the
NYC Memorandum of Agreement with the EPA, NYS and watershed communities
and now monitored by the NYS DOH. That MOA created a set of Filtration
Avoidance Determination obligations, and the most significant management
issue for water quality is turbidity. The applicant has not considered
any of this in their Project Proposal. A review of the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine reports from 2000, 2010
and 2020 highlight the challenges and requirements for the watershed
wide management of this critical water supply ecosystem to avoid water
supply filtration and its costs.

From the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine
report "Watershed Management for Potable Water Supply: Assessing the New
York City Strategy" (2000), p.88.
"The Watershed Rules and Regulations of the New York City Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) are among the most comprehensive and detailed
regulations regarding watershed activities found in this country.
However, they cannot be considered in isolation given the large number
of federal, state, and local statutes and regulations with which New
York City must comply. This chapter briefly describes the initial
impetus for the creation of environmental regulations relating to
drinking water, it outlines certain federal regulations that pertain to
the New York City drinking water supply, and it describes how the MOA
attempts to fill gaps between federal, state, and local environmental
regulations." ….
"Although watershed management is important for any surface water
supply, it is critical for an unfiltered supply. The MOA is a remarkable
document and a significant milestone in the City’s water supply and the
region’s development. Successful implementation of the MOA is the most
important challenge facing the City’s water supply managers. " There was
no analysis by the applicant of how this pump storage proposal will
affect the current predictive models for water supply operations which
will impact water supply quality or quantity and potentially impact
community safety by disrupting the flood control component of water
supply management. This will affect communities downstream of the
Ashokan Reservoir, all the way to the Hudson River, and potentially
affect the communities the use the Hudson River for their water
supplies.
The alternative sites for an upper reservoir will dam streams that carry
high loads of coarse sediment (bed load) through steep mountain valleys.
As proposed, the upper reservoir dams will interrupt 100% of the coarse
sediment supply. Bed load is needed to re-form stream riffles and other
channel stabilizing features downstream of the reservoir dam. Stream
riffles and other natural channel features armor stream beds against
erosion. Streams located downstream of newly constructed dams are highly
likely to become unstable and erode downward and laterally following dam
construction during a period of adjustment. This adjustment period or
channel evolution is critical to the stream returning to an equilibrium
state following the disruption to hydrology and sediment supply caused
by dam construction and would likely occur over a period of decades. In
addition to downward adjustment of channels, a reduction in stream flow
downstream of a dam can lead to sediment accumulation in the channel bed
triggering stream bank erosion. In accordance with modern understandings
of stream physics confirmed through scientific study, it can be expected
that streams below a newly constructed dam will undergo erosion and
adjustment before a new channel configuration achieves hydraulic
stability (Williams and Wolman, 1984; Church, 1995; Grant, 2003). The
Ashokan Watershed’s geology is such that coarse bed load transported by
streams is frequently deposited over relatively deep deposits of clay
sediments that historically formed under glacial lakes. Channels starved
of bed load below a dam would likely erode into glacial lake clays and
substantially increase fine sediment loading to downstream water bodies,
including the Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir. Adjustments to the
channel bed and stream bank erosion raise the following concerns:

1)  Banks in this watershed include large hillslopes that are layered
    with the glacial lake clays that threaten water quality.

2)  Extensive bank erosion could undermine existing public culverts and
    bridges located on affected streams.

3)  Public roads by necessity are located near or adjacent to streams in
    steep mountain valleys and could be undermined.

4)  In this heavily forested watershed, bank erosion would likely
    increase the supply of large wood to channels, further contributing
    to channel instability and threatening public infrastructure.

5)  Private septic systems, buildings, and stream crossings could
    similarly be undermined.

The Upper Esopus Creek and minor tributaries between the Ashokan
Reservoir and Allaben are included on the NYS Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters. The NYC water supply, aquatic invertebrates, and
fishes, as well as recreational uses will be impaired by this increased
turbidity, silt and sediment. The upper pumped storage reservoir will
also disconnect spawning trout from upstream habitat and interrupt the
cold water wild trout needed to survive downstream of the new upper
storage reservoir.
Additionally, any waters pumped from the Ashokan Reservoir into the
upper pumped storage reservoir could significantly impact the existing
fragile ecosystems of the headwater tributaries:

1)  The pump water in the upper reservoir could introduce two
    significant pollutant into the fragile ecosystem and especially the
    downstream stream: warm water, and turbid water. Water pumped up to
    the new reservoir from the Ashokan will be significantly warmer than
    the ambient water temperatures and will be significantly more
    turbid. Any release into the downstream reaches would require SPEDES
    Permit from the DEC.

2)  Pumping water from the Ashokan Reservoir into the upper pumped
    storage reservoir can also introduce non-native species of fishes
    and organisms into the upstream and downstream ecosystem of that
    upper reservoir.

3)  Unique heritage strains of wild brook trout populations that have
    been compromised and reduced until they can only be found in
    isolated headwater streams, will be at risk due to these pumping
    operations into headwater areas.

A review of the alternative sites for pumping and discharge
infrastructure in the Ashokan Reservoir as proposed indicate a poor
understanding of the Ashokan Reservoir upper basin water levels,
topography, and existing land use. The elevation of the upper basin
historically ranges from 594.84 feet above sea level to 530.56 feet
above sea level. Although the highest reservoir level is managed for dam
and community safety, and operated to provide a continuous water supply,
the lowest levels in the reservoir are dictated by natural
precipitation. Climate change will also have a significant impact on
these reservoir levels in the future. In 5 of the last 6 years the upper
basin of the Ashokan Reservoir has fallen below an elevation of 570 feet
above sea level. Based upon the proposal for a western bank pump
operation, it appears that the terminus of that operation would have to
be hundreds of yards away from the western shoreline. Having pump and
discharge operations below 570 feet will have a dramatic impact on
sediment movement in the reservoir and affect the delicate balance of
the thermocline in summer months. These operations could also create
other nonlinear disruptions that would result in seiches waves and would
further disrupt turbidity in the reservoir. A constant turbid state in
the Ashokan from operation of this project will adversely impact both
zooplankton and therefore affect the wild rainbow trout population. The
interconnection of the Ashokan Reservoir and Esopus Creek fisheries has
long been recognized. Recently the NYS Department of Environmental
Conservation reclassified the Esopus Creek as a Wild-Quality stream,
under their newly approved Trout Management Plan. Locating the pumping
and discharge infrastructure on the North Eastern side of the Upper
Basin of the Ashokan Reservoir pose other unique issues. The Ashokan
Rail Trail, a linear park on Ulster County lands that pass-through NYC
Lands, runs along the entire shoreline where this alternative pump
infrastructure is proposed. With over 200,000 visitors in 2020, any
construction in this area will pose both another legal challenge and
significantly impact regional tourism.

Residents of Ulster County depend upon NYC DEP to provide Dam Safety and
Flood mitigation services. The applicant would need significant
coordination with NYC DEP and Reservoir Operations to continue to ensure
flood mitigation and safety to downstream residents of their upper
reservoir, but also as a part of the Ashokan Reservoir flood control
processes. The applicant must be responsible to ensure Dam Safety as
guided by FERC. The applicant would also have to provide Security and
Safety to the 9 million water supply customer against any terrorist
threats to the water supply commensurate to the efforts provided by the
NYC Water Supply Police and the NYC DEP.

As argued by the NYC DEP and based upon analysis of many environmental
experts, this application should be denied at this point in the process.
There are many fatal flaws in the Project Proposal including a lack of
site-specific considerations for very significant regulatory, legal,
environmental, safety and water supply requirements. Coordination of
system wide operational management, predictive modeling and planning,
Flood control and other environmental and regulatory requirements are
critical to operate within a water supply ecosystem.

Therefore, for all these reasons, I urge you to reject Premium Energy
Holding’s proposed preliminary application for Docket P-15056 for the
Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

Respectfully,

Chester Karwatowski
References:

Church, M. 1995. Geomorphic response to river flow regulation: case
studies and timescales. Regulated Rivers 11: 3–22.

Grant, G.E., Schmidt, J.C., and Lewis, S.L. 2003. A geological framework
for interpreting downstream effects of dams on rivers. In O’Connor, J.E.
and Grant, G.E., editors. A Peculiar River. American Geophysical Union,
Water Science and Applications 7, pp. 203–219.

Williams, G.P. and Wolman, M.G. 1984. Downstream Effects of Dams on
Alluvial Rivers. United States Geological Survey, Professional Paper
1286.

Davis, Dans, Knuepfer, Peter L.K., Miller, Nicolas, and Vian, Mark.
2009. Fluvial Geomorphology of the Upper Esopus Creek Watershed and
Implications for Stream Management.

National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine reports dated
2000, 2010, 2020. "Watershed Management for Potable Water Supply:
Assessing the New York City Strategy"
