New York Chapter of Backcountry Hunters & Anglers

_“The sportsmen’s voice for our wild public lands, waters and wildlife”_

www.backcountryhunters.org

  April 11, 2021

_ONLINE SUBMISSION_

Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

888 First Street NE

Washington DC 20426

RE: COMMENTS

  DOCKET # P-15056 – ASHOKAN PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT

Dear Secretary Bose:

On behalf of the New York Chapter of Backcountry Hunters & Anglers (“NY
BHA”), a dedicated group of conservation-minded hunters and anglers in
the Catskills region and more broadly, the State of New York, we write
with respect to the Preliminary Permit application submitted to the
Commission by Premium Energy Holdings (“PEH”) for the Ashokan Pumped
Storage Project (P-15056) (the “Project”). In particular, NY BHA intends
to convey our concerns about the potential negative impacts that the
Project will have on the Ashoken Reservoir and Esopus Creek watersheds,
as well as other sensitive Catskills resources important to the hunting
and angling community in this geographic area.

NY BHA is focused on advancing proven approaches to conserving wild
places and rich outdoor heritage. We strive to shine a positive light on
American wildlife and land conservation. New York has a strong history
of conservation, as well as some of the best hunting and fishing in
North America. NY BHA aims to carry on that legacy by providing bold,
science-driven conservation leadership led by hunters and anglers, and
to benefit residents of New York and beyond. To ensure high-quality
wildlife habitat, we stand for proper, sustainable management and
protection of the lands and waters that give New Yorkers the opportunity
to peacefully cast a fly to sipping trout or slip through the November
deer woods.

As a nonprofit organization with approximately 1,000 members in New York
State, many of which who reside in the Catskill Mountains, NY BHA has
numerous concerns regarding the potential negative impacts from the
Project. The Ashokan Reservoir and Esopus Creek watershed are noted cold
water fisheries important to the angling community. Additionally, the
surrounding lands are pristine habitat for flora and fauna (including
deer, bear, turkey and other game species) that act as a key piece of
the fishery ecosystem. These resources are important to the hunting and
angling community and thus, NY BHA has a special interest in their
preservation.

CATSKILL PARK

The Project lies within the “blue line” of the Catskill region of New
York. Catskill Park lies within this blue line, which are protected
lands designated as “forever wild” under the New York State
Constitution. Before the turn of the last century, New York State wisely
set aside certain areas of state forest land from industrial and
large-scale commercial development as part of the state constitution.
NYS Const. Art. XIV.

The PEH project would require a taking under eminent domain. Assuming
its permit application were granted, a threshold issue PEH will face is
whether such a taking is legally possible. In a case involving a FERC
certificate issued under the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”), the Third Circuit
Court of Appeals held that under the Eleventh Amendment a state’s
sovereign immunity prevents a private party from forcing the state into
court to enforce a condemnation order to seize state land. _In re
PennEast Pipeline Co._, 938 F.3d 96 (3d Cir. 2019). The Supreme Court
has granted certiorari and will hear arguments this month. Even if the
Court overturns the Third Circuit, this can only resolve the threshold
issue of whether the courts will even hear the case and not whether the
pipeline owner will prevail. The proposed “taking” by PEH would be much
more extensive than simply providing a right of way for a pipeline
across state land at issue in _PennEast_. More significantly, PEH would
need to condemn land protected under a state constitution which may
raise a host of constitutional issues.

PROJECT IMPACTS

The trout streams of the Catskills are revered among fishermen across
the nation as the birthplace of American Fly Fishing. Further, the
Esopus watershed has been established as a historical and recreational
treasure of the Catskills that continues to attract thousands of
anglers, hikers, birders and hunters every year, benefitting local
businesses of all types. As an angling and hunting organization, NY BHA
is very concerned with the health of the trout that inhabit the Esopus
Creek. Water quality is the single most important element for a healthy
trout population. Trout require very clean, cold, well-oxygenated water,
and their current population in the Esopus indicates a high quality
stream for all forms life in the ecosystem. By the same token, trout are
very sensitive to habitat degradation. As it is, every year the
ecosystem of the Esopus is stressed with problems of maintaining cold
temperatures and adequate water levels during the hot summer months and
the negative impacts from a project of this size clearly threatens to
significantly alter this precious habitat.

Construction of the facility is incompatible with largely undisturbed
forest preserve provided by the Catskills Park. Based on PEH’s First
Amended Permit, any of the three proposals would require the delivery of
many thousands of tons of concrete and steel through the Park to
construct the impoundment dams, tunnels and halls for turbines and
transformers. More than 100 million cubic feet of rock and soil will
need to be excavated and transported out of the park. With the exception
of the construction of New York City’s water reservoirs, no construction
on this scale has occurred within the Catskills.

The operation phase of the Project would have a significant impact on
protected waterways. The PEH facility will continuously degrade the
aquatic ecosystem of the Esopus Creek, which is a “natural waterway”
that was impounded to create the Ashokan. Operating the PEH facility
will also change groundwater flows, eliminating at least one tributary
to the Esopus. We expect numerous species a flora and fauna may be
negatively impacted by operation of the PEH facility, including without
limitation, the trout.

Operating the PEH facility will also endanger the water supply for
millions. The Ashokan is the largest reservoir in the NYC water supply
system. By maintaining an undisturbed watershed around its reservoirs,
New York City has created a high quality water supply for its residents.
Even so, silt has been an issue for the Ashokan resulting in turbid
discharges into the Esopus Creek. For over 100 years, the West Basin has
served as a settling pond for water entering the reservoir; silt drops
from suspension before flowing over a weir into the East Basin where the
City’s intake port is located. A study of water years from 2010 to 2012
found between 30,000 and 600,000 tons of silt flowed into the West Basin
annually. Even assuming the average year’s silt load is 100,000 tons per
year, after 100 years of operation there are 10 million tons of silt
resting on the bottom of the West Basin. PEH estimates it will pump
15,800 acre-ft of water into and out from the West Basin on a daily
basis. Disturbance of the West Basin will no doubt re-suspend
accumulated silt, impacting the ability of the West Basin to absorb
incoming silt and consequently, potentially causing higher temperatures
and turbidity with the releases into the Esopus Creek.

Based upon the application materials provided, NY BHA identifies
potential negative impacts to the following: water quality; fish,
insect, wildlife and habitat; numerous intermittent streams and
wetlands; and historical and recreational preservation.

CONCLUSION

 

NY BHA, by this letter, presents some significant issues that concern
our members regarding this Project. Due to the numerous foreseeable
negative impacts mentioned above, the continued preservation of one of
the most unique cultural and recreational resources in the Catskills is
in serious jeopardy. Any negative impacts to the trout habitat and/or
the diverse ecosystems on the Ashoken and Esopus watershed will have
far-reaching effects for fishing and hunting, and the many aspects of
the local economy related to it, in this portion of the Catskills.

NY BHA recognizes the need for energy storage alternatives. Adequate
capacity to store energy generated by renewable, but intermitted,
sources makes alternative energy more economically viable. However, such
development can, and must, be undertaken in a thoughtful, responsible
manner that does not jeopardize the tremendous natural resources that
make the this portion of the Catskills so special, unique, and
environmentally and economically important. A project on the scale
proposed by PEH is incompatible with the Catskill region and any
proposed development which cannot be undertaken without such negative
impacts, should not be allowed to proceed. Thus, we respectfully request
that FERC deny the pending Permit application and this proposed Project.

Thank you for your considerations.

  Very truly yours,

  [johns signature]

  John L. Barone

  NY BHA Board Member
