

Robert S. Tannenbaum, Lexington, KY.
Opposition to Premium Energy’s Proposed Underground Power Station

To:  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
From:  Robert S. Tannenbaum, 2414 Lake Park Road #2108, Lexington, KY 40502 and
				       848 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia, NY 12464
Re:  Docket number P-15056-000


I am unequivocally opposed to the underground power station proposed by Premium Energy of California.

I and all the other individuals or entities who might be affected have received no notice of the proposal by Premium Energy of California to create an underground power station at the Ashokan Reservoir in Ulster County, NY.  The proposal would also entail a new dam at one of three sites upstream from the reservoir and the consequent destructive flooding of an existing valley.  Our only notice is an article in the Kingston (NY) Daily Freeman ( https://www.dailyfreeman.com/news/local-news/underground-power-station-proposed-on-ashokan-reservoir-property/article_5c328780-72f0-11eb-a379-8bdd4a547ba5.htm), which notes that the City of New York Department of Environmental Protection also was never notified.

The proposed plant appears to be strikingly inefficient.  Only about 25% of the electricity it would generate (800 of the 2,800 megawatts) would be available to the grid.  The remaining 75% would be used to operate the plant.  Furthermore, there was no evidence provided that these 800 megawatts are required or that they were unavailable from other existing sources.  

I am not qualified to argue the engineering failings of the proposed plant, although they do appear to be numerous.  However, I can emphatically argue against it on practical, aesthetic, and personal grounds.

In order to create this inefficient and unnecessary plant, the article indicates that one of the possible dam sites for an “upper reservoir” is in the “Woodland Valley, near Muddy Brook Road.”   A dam at that location would destroy one of the most beautiful, historic, and peaceful streams and valleys in the Catskills.

The Woodland Valley and the Woodland Creek that created it were a favorite of the famous naturalist John Burroughs.  He often hiked there in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.  He wrote about it in various of his books, most notably when telling of his climbing of Slide Mountain and then descending into the Valley.  His love of the Valley for its natural beauty was shared by many others in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries who made it their home (seasonal or year-round), including painters, musicians, and those who loved and appreciated nature.

My parents were among those who fell in love with the Valley.  More than seventy-five years ago, in 1945, they purchased one of the oldest farm houses in the Valley. We believe that it is the second oldest home still standing.  We know that our house was in existence during the Crimean War (1853-56), because newspaper clippings with dispatches from that war were used as insulation in some of the walls.  Growing up, I spent all of my summers there, wading, swimming, and fishing in the Woodland Creek.  Both of my sons and both of my grandsons also waded, swam, and fished there.  I hope that someday my great grandchildren will be able to do the same.  

However, if Premium Energy is allowed to build its dam, my dreams for my progeny and the dreams of all of my neighbors will never materialize.  Our house may be inaccessible and the Woodland Creek will be forever altered.  The Valley is a thriving community with hundreds of homes, a State Park, and hiking trails that are used by people from all over the eastern United States.  All of this will be obliterated.

In addition, destruction of the Woodland Valley would certainly have an enormous negative economic impact on the surrounding communities, especially the Village of Phoenicia, just a mile from the head of the Valley and home to a renowned annual vocal music festival.  The resultant loss of thousands of annual tourists and hikers, in addition to all of the homeowners, could be devastating to the economy of that village (and the others within a ten-mile radius) that are dependent on both local and transient business.  

I can find no possible excuse (except, perhaps, stockholder profits) for the wanton destruction of such a natural wonder as the Woodland Valley and its Creek.  The same can certainly be said for the two other suggested sites for the “upper reservoir.”  

I am in favor of making maximum use of environmentally-friendly sources of power, such as solar, wind, and hydroelectric.  However, I am never in favor of such sources if they damage or destroy natural beauty or existing communities.  For example, I am delighted that we have no huge wind turbines high on the mountains in the Catskill Park, even though they might generate a significant amount of electricity.  The tops of our mountains are to be “forever wild,” as dictated by the Constitution of New York State.  The same should be the case for our valleys.  They must never be wantonly flooded and destroyed for the sake of a (relatively) small amount of power and the profits of some non-resident stockholders.

We are facing just another example of the demolition of the environment in the name of energy.  This threat is analogous to what has happened in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia with the destruction of the mountains through mountain top removal coal mining.  What has been lost there can never be retrieved or replaced.  We must not let the same devastation occur in the valleys of the Catskills.

I urge the Commission in the strongest possible terms to reject this proposal and never let the project proceed.



