

Kim Lipfert, West Shokan, NY.
To Whom It May Concern, 

I wish to voice my opposition to the proposal put forth by Premium Energy Holdings to build a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity. Although I agree that sustainable and renewable energy is important, I strongly oppose Project P-15056-000. I believe the Catskill Mountains is not the right place for such an intrusive project, and would have a long-term devastating impact on the environment and community. The proposed project is massive, intrusive, and if constructed, likely to damage local lands, roads, and streams that are part of a Status 1 State Forest Preserve, and cause increased turbidity in waters serving as an unfiltered drinking water source for nine million people in New York City. 

In addition, a long-term project of this kind, with a constant flow of heavy construction vehicles and road restrictions, would deter much relied upon tourism, and cause road congestion for many years for the community.

And lastly, a project of this kind with a massive power line path would cause many homes of established residents to be vacated and possibly leveled. This displacement of families, including my own, who have built and maintained their homesteads over many years, respecting and preserving the surrounding environment, would be absolutely devastating.

In conclusion, I believe the project would be better suited in a location that:

1. Is not a Status 1 State Forest Preserve.
2. An area where an “Add On” reservoir does not pose a serious risk to one of the largest reservoirs providing pristine drinking water to NYC residents, and local wells.
3. Is situated in an area that is not populated by a community of long-term, established residents, who rely on a healthy tourism economy. 


Please do everything in your power to prevent this proposal from moving forward.

Respectfully,

Kim Lipfert
52 Brodhead Rd
West Shokan, NY 12494


