

George Esposito, Phoenicia, NY.
George & Karen Esposito, Phoenicia, NY 
Docket No. P-15056 -000  Ashokan Pumped Storage Project

The proposed project by Premium Energy, a California Co, to use the pristine land which is part of the Catskill Forest Preserve and the Ashokan reservoir that is highly protected as part of NYC’s drinking water is nothing but greedy and preposterous. We have owned our second home in Woodland Valley Phoenicia NY, one of the areas directly affected by this proposal for over 30 years. We raised our children and grandchildren to love, respect and always protect the natural wildlife and its abundant nature, as well as the wild streams that flow into the Ashokan and NYC’s drinking water. The proposal infringes on lands that are deemed to be “forever kept as wild forest land” and part of that land also includes the Woodland Valley Campground, est. in the 1930’s one of the oldest in NY and a major tourist attraction. If allowed to go forward the project will also negatively impact tourism which generates significant revenue for the local economy.  There are so many reasons why we passionately object to this irrational project. A project that was submitted to FERC as a “closed loop” project which from what we have learned appears to be quite the contrary.  Please do everything in your power to decline this project as it will ultimately desecrate one of the Catskills most scenic tourist areas with tremendous dams, transmission lines, turbines and tunnels, to possibly store enough energy to supply a small number of homes in the event current grid is overtaxed. The massive costs of this project coupled with the destruction to the ecosystem, drinking water, businesses, people’s lives, livelihoods and wellbeing, is not quantifiable nor well thought out. 
While renewal energy may be important in today’s world surely Premium Energy of Ca could seek out more suitable sites across the country that are barren or rural where a project of this nature would not have a detrimental effect on vital trout waters, an existing community, or clean drinking water. 



