

Irwin Marcus, Boiceville, NY.
This Premium Energy project is ill conceived and unwelcome in a pristine environmentally protected water shed area. I am to believe that this project was supposed to act as a battery to provide ‘peak’ electric supply rather than increase our overall power generated.

The electrical generation of hydro-pumped storage consumes more electricity than it produces.

The money would be better spent to augment our areas’ electrical needs by using solar, wind and run-of-river hydro power.

For battery type storage – the current technology such as the Tesla Megapack can provide Megawatts of electricity for peak use in the future. The price for battery storage will decrease dramatically in the near future and the next wave of 80% reclaimed electric auto batteries can be used to increase storage capacity and at a lower cost.

So my question is why are we using such a destructive pumped hydro solution when we don’t have a problem at this time – if you say we have a peak issue – then please tell me what is our area’s current electrical drain during a 24 hour period and what do we need to provide peak power overload for now and for the next 5 – 10 years? 

An issue as far as the system proposed is ‘Not a Closed Loop’ system.
The proposal states falsely in Exhibit 1 on p. 11: "The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop. This is NOT a closed-loop system. It is an ‘add-on’ project for open-loop pumped-storage hydropower because the proposed project’s lower reservoir, Ashokan Reservoir, is still continuously connected to, and may affect, the natural flowing water feature that was dammed to construct the Ashokan Reservoir

The three sites proposed for the upper reservoir would cause major damage to highly preserved land in the Catskills Forest Preserve created in 1885 in Ulster County.

Under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.
The proposed project would destroy these irreplaceable natural areas, undermine the attractiveness of the area for tourism, weaken the local economy, pollute downstream, and probably wreck one of NYC's major capital assets, its water supply system.
Also – the Forest Preserve shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 2 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the U.S. Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development." 

In conclusion, granting the urgent need for more renewable energy in New York State and nationally, this preliminary permit application should be rejected at the outset, because the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding forests and mountains are not the right place for this project.

The amount of digging and construction in the fragile area proposed would permanently dislodge wildlife, the flora and fauna and countless other forms of life.

Yours truly
Irwin Marcus 


