

Stephen Lieb, Denville, NJ.
I write to ask that you deny PEH’s proposed project to construct a pumped-storage facility on Ashokan reservoir.  I am a fisherman who fishes the Esopus and its tributaries.  I recognize the need for energy storage alternatives, including pumped-storage.  Adequate capacity to store energy generated by renewable, but intermitted, sources like wind and solar, makes alternative energy sources more economically viable.   A project on the scale proposed by PEH , however, is incompatible with the Catskill region.  It would raise significant legal issues, would disrupt an ecosystem that has been protected for over a century, and would endanger a vital source of drinking water for millions of people.   I urge you to reject PEH’s proposal.  
Catskill Park lies within the “blue line” of protected lands designated as “forever wild” under the New York State constitution.  Before the turn of the last century, New York State wisely set aside certain areas of state forest land from industrial and large-scale commercial development as part of the state constitution.  NYS Const. Art. XIV.  The PEH project would require a taking under eminent domain.  Assuming its permit application were granted, a threshold issue PEH will face is whether such a taking is legally possible.  In a case involving a FERC certificate issued under the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”), the Third Circuit Court of Appeals held that under the Eleventh Amendment a state’s sovereign immunity prevents a private party from forcing the state into court to enforce a condemnation order to seize state land.  In re PennEast Pipeline Co., 938 F.3d 96 (3d Cir. 2019).  The Supreme Court has granted certiorari and will hear arguments this month.  But even if the Court overturns the Third Circuit, this can only resolve the threshold issue whether the courts will even hear the case and not whether the pipeline owner will prevail.  The proposed “taking” by PEH would be much more extensive than simply providing a right of way for a pipeline across state land at issue in PennEast.  More importantly, PEH would need to condemn land protected under a state constitution which may raise a host of constitutional issues.  
Construction of the facility is incompatible with largely undisturbed forest preserve provided by the Catskills Park.  Based on PEH’s First Amended Permit, any of the three proposals would require the delivery of many thousands of tons of concrete and steel through the park to construct the impoundment dams, tunnel s and halls for turbines and transformers.  More than 100 million cubic feet of rock and soil will need to be excavated and transported out of the park.  With the exception of the construction of New York City’s water reservoirs, no construction on this scale has occurred within the Catskills.  
Operation of the facility would have a significant impact on protected waterways.  PEH seeks to minimize the impact of the project by asserting that it is “closed loop.” See PEH First Amended Application at 11. If it were, PEH could take advantage of FERC’s expedited licensing process.  But PEH’s assertion is simply untrue.  A “closed-loop” facility is one that would  “(i) Cause little to no change to existing surface and groundwater flows and uses; (ii) Is unlikely to adversely affect species listed as a threatened species or endangered species, or designated critical habitat of such species, under the Endangered Species Act of 1973; (iii) Utilize only reservoirs situated at locations other than natural waterways, lakes, wetlands, and other natural surface water features; and (iv) Rely only on temporary withdrawals from surface waters or groundwater for the sole purposes of initial fill and periodic recharge needed for project operation.”   18 C.F.R. § 7.1(c)(3).  Operation of the PEH facility would degrade the aquatic ecosystem of the Esopus, which is a “natural waterway” that was impounded to create the Ashokan.  Water flows into and the out from the Ashokan making PEH’s project an “open-loop” system unlike, for example, the proposed Goldendale Energy Storage Project which would use specially constructed embankments to form a truly “closed-loop.”  See Federal Register 2017, 82 FR 60593 FFP Project 101 .  The proposed PEH facility will no doubt change groundwater flows, eliminating at least one tributary to the Esopus.  It remains to be seen what species may be impacted by operation the project, but the proposal cannot be considered one a closed loop that minimizes environmental impacts.  
Operation of PEH’s facility will also endanger the water supply for millions.  The Ashokan is the largest reservoir in the NYC water supply system.  By maintaining an undisturbed watershed around its reservoirs, New York City has created a water supply that is the envy of every major city on the planet.  Even so, silt has been an issue for the Ashokan.  For over 100 years, the West Basin has served as a settling pond for water from the Esopus and from City reservoirs further upstate; silt drops from suspension before flowing over a weir into the East Basin where the City’s intake port is located.  A study of water years from 2010 to 2012 found between 30,000 and 600,000 tons of silt flowed into the West Basin annually.  Even assuming the average year’s silt load is 100,000 tons per year, after 100 years of operation there are 10 million tons of silt resting on the bottom of the West Basin.  PEH estimates it will pump 15,800 acre-ft of water into and out from the West Basin on a daily basis.  Disturbance of the West Basin will no doubt resuspend accumulated silt and will impact the ability of the West basis to absorb incoming silt.  
The protected lands within the Catskill blue line are a wise investment New York State made on behalf of its citizens. In seeking to achieve the laudable goals of affordable, reliable, clean energy, FERC should not squander this investment.  I urge you to reject PEH’s proposed project in the Catskills.

