

Jonathan Nedbor, High Falls, NY.
Jonathan Nedbor
496 Towpath 
High Falls, NY 12440
										April 5, 2021
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
I am moved to write this in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I strongly urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.
I have lived and hiked in this area for 40 years. In those 40 years I have seen endless proposals for projects that benefit those who do not live here in the Catskills. Projects that would spoil the natural beauty, disrupt the lives of local people, put our streams and creeks at risk and offer no long term benefits for the land or for those of us whose lives are here. 
I am sure that you are aware of the history of the Catskills Forest Preserve in Ulster County, created in 1885. And that under ArIcle XIV of the NYS ConsItuIon, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 
 The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly fragmented environment; the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. 

I am sure that you are aware that as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 
Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum. 
As for the environmental impacts on this area, it is known that these pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. As it is, we are now suffering from the releases from the Ashokan Reservoir into the Esopus Creek. These releases are laden with silt, smothering every living thing found in the creek with a dense layer of mud. Do we need more of this in this region? I do not think so, coffee colored streams and creeks, that are both unsightly and unhealthy. 
These additional releases will alter the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus as well as the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and part of the NYC water supply system. This also puts further strain on the NYC water system which is unable to manage the silt problem as it stands at this time. This puts our streams at greater risk as well as the water system for all of New York City.
Chocolate brown streams, loss of fish habitat, damage to the environment, removal of acres of trees, construction, etc., will damage the local businesses that depend on the resources in the area as well as much needed tourism. 
I don’t think I need to add more to this letter, the concerns I have mentioned already should be enough of an argument to stop this mega project before it goes any further. It is poorly designed with no thought for the damage and destruction it will cause to the environment and to the inhabitants of this region.  
Sincerely,
Jonathan Nedbor


