

Lois M Ostapczuk, Shokan, NY.
                                                April 6th, 2021
						69 Ridge Rd.
						Shokan, NY 12481

Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426

Re: Project P-15056 Ashokan Pumped Storage 

Dear Secretary Bose:

I am writing FERC to express my strong opposition to the referenced proposal, plus hopefully providing this agency additional insights regarding it.

To begin with, this proposal is NOT a closed system, but part of New York City’s (NYC) watershed that contains an unfiltered water supply with various stream inflows and outflows, including the Catskill Adequate.  Thus, it is a living body of water that acts as an important source of drinking water for millions of New Yorkers, plus provides recreational opportunities that support the local economy.  I find it disheartening that the applicant, Premium Energy Holdings (PEH), didn’t understand this simple fact, or chose to mislead FERC.

Furthermore, when NYC constructed the Ashokan Reservoir in the early 1900s, it did so utilizing two separate basins, where the western reservoir--- primary location of this PEH proposal--- served as a settling basin for incoming, and sometimes turbid waters.  As part of an effort to avoid water filtration, NYC helped by underwriting costs of minimizing turbid inflows through funding the Ashokan Stream Management Program (AWSMP).  Per information available to the general public, and found online,

“The Ashokan Watershed Stream Management Program was established as a joint effort between Cornell Cooperative Extension of Ulster County (CCE), the Ulster County Soil and Water Conservation District (UCSWCD), and the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). The three agencies work collaboratively to protect and restore the stability and ecological integrity of streams in the Ashokan Reservoir Watershed. 

Action planning in the Ashokan Watershed began with the development of stream management plans for the Broadstreet Hollow Creek in 2003, Stony Clove Creek in 2004, the Upper Esopus Creek in 2007, and the Beaver Kill in 2015. In subsequent years, AWSMP completed stream assessments of Woodland Creek, Beaver Kill, Warner Creek, Birch Creek, Bush Kill, Bushnellsville Creek, and the Stony Clove Creek was reassessed. 

A Filtration Avoidance Declaration (FAD) granted to NYC in 2007 requires DEP and its partners to develop an Action Plan for the coming year to show how the findings and recommendations of the stream management plans will be implemented.”

Currently UCSWCD contributes twelve million dollars ($12,000,0000) over a rolling five-year period to this effort, of which 62% of this money is devoted to turbidity reduction restoration projects upstream of the Ashokan Reservoir.  This is a significant contribution committed to the reduction of turbid inflows to the Ashokan to protect the quality of the drinking water, which this proposal will adversely impact.

On a slightly different vein, there are some 300,000 annual visits yearly to the Ashokan Promenade along the reservoir, drawn by the beauty of the surroundings.  To be clear, not all of these visits are unique individual visitations, but include some return visitors.  Additionally, there are over 2000 registered rowboats of anglers who utilize the Ashokan for fishing purposes, and this does not include foot traffic of anglers from shore.  Plus, the newly implemented Ashokan Rail Trail (ART) has an estimated 250,000 annual visitors.  On a nice weather weekend parking space is often not available for all those who wish to use the ART.

This proposal is an economic and environmental disaster that flies in the face of all commonsense, directly and adversely impacting all those who benefit from NYC’s Ashokan Reservoir.  Pumping and release of water between two different reservoirs, varying the Ashokan’s levels will keep silt suspended in the water column causing significant, and potentially unhealthy issues with the City’s drinking water.  It will adversely impact the existing fishery, which has been an economic engine for a struggling local economy.  Plus, just the sight of the clean, majestic Ashokan Reservoir against the Catskill wild forest backdrop has brought crowds of anglers, walkers, bald-eagle watchers, nature lovers, and sight-seers who further support the local economy through purchases of gas, food, and gifts.  And this does not include the potential health and financial impacts to the nine million New Yorkers who rely upon the Ashokan Reservoir as a source of unfiltered drinking water.  This project is ill conceived with far reaching economic and environmental impacts.

For these reasons, I urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny a permit to Premium Energy Holdings for the referenced project.
							
                                                        Sincerely,
							/s/
							Lois M. Ostapczuk



