

Howard Altarescu, West Shokan, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-00

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I respectfully urge FERC to decline this request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it has the very real potential to be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of New York City's drinking water.

I am a resident of West Shokan, New York. We are privileged in West Shokan to be surrounded by the beautiful Catskill Mountains, the Catskills Park, the Catskill Forest Preserve, the Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir. We are quite concerned by the application made by Premium Energy to construct a hydroelectric power plant in the vicinity of these resources, much of which is intended to be protected by Article XIV of the New York State Constitution: “The lands of the state, now owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private . . . .”
We are concerned that the construction and operation of the proposed facility will endanger the ecology of the Catskills Forest Preserve, including endangering threatened species. Construction and operation of the facility will also negatively impact recreational use of these natural resources by hikers, and by those who enjoy the streams, affecting fishing, boating, and swimming, and, as a result, would undoubtedly have a negative impact on tourism, resultant business revenues and sorely needed local tax revenues. This area of the Catskills is just recently and slowly recovering from years of economic decline and proceeding with the proposed facility would be a major setback to these communities and its residents.

Also, construction and operation of Premium Energy’s hydroelectric facility in the vicinity of the Esopus Creek, which feeds directly into the Ashokan Reservoir, and in the vicinity of the Reservoir itself, cannot but increase turbidity and put at risk the quality of New York City’s drinking water. According to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection, “[The] Ashokan Reservoir supplies about 40% of New York City’s daily drinking water needs in non-drought periods."

I do understand the need to develop alternative sources of energy. However, there must be areas where such alternative energy sources could be developed that are not adjacent to the source of critical water supplies for the City of New York and to the other protected resources of the Catskills, an area where construction and operation would not destroy protected wilderness, disrupt vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

I urge FERC to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Thank you.

Respectfully yours,

Howard Altarescu
250 Brodhead Road
West Shokan, New York 12494


