

Samuel Kalb, Woodstock, NY.
My name is Sam Kalb, I come from Woodstock, NY, and I would like to express my strong opposition to Premium Energy Holdings' Ashokan Pumped Storage project. I am an ecology graduate student and as I have delved into this field of research one point I have come to again and again is how lucky I am to be from the Catskills; very few places still exist in the world like our region. Infrastructure and urban sprawl are creating widespread pest ecosystems, systems where a small number of highly reproductive species dominate due to altered ecosystem processes such as nutrient dynamics. Streams impacted by dams are at extremely high risk for such a transformation; stream ecosystems rely heavily on natural flow regimes for maintaining microhabitats for many species that keep them diverse, and the unnatural uniformity created by dams can cause many of these species to go locally extinct. Large areas of still water are highly vulnerable to eutrophication, the process of nutrient overload that leads to the dreaded "dead zones" seen in regions like Lake Erie. 

I am not a pure preservationist who holds some idealistic worldview that humans should never do anything with negative ecological consequences, nor am I akin to Edward Wilson, the ecologist pushing to preserve 50% of the world's land from human use. I am a realist. What I want to impress upon our decision makers is that the Catskills region where this dam has been proposed is one of the last of a fast disappearing type of landscape, wildland where human communities exist around healthy ecological processes. Travel the United States with an ecologist and you will see just how rare such regions are in a country where urban sprawl is becoming a dominant land cover type. The Catskills represent a future where humans can extract resources from our environment in an ecologically conscious way. A Catskills region with this dam will not have the same character we so love now, and that is a guarantee. Among the proudest parts of being a New Yorker is that our state constitution protects such lands; if our elected leaders and their appointed agents fail to respect such protections, it becomes one more failing of a broad system of powers in which many young people like me are fast losing faith. I have had some faith that our new government may break this long trend of lost faith, and I hope you will prove me right by respecting both our state constitution and the value for a biosphere where humans can live in concert with nature.

The bottom line is this: energy can be acquired from many sources, but healthy forests and streams are a phenomenon that will not long persist if those in power allow projects like this. I would consider it a deep failing to allow the mountain forests that made me who I am to be turned into just one more low-biodiversity dammed watershed. 

