

Rosemary Anderson, Watsonville, CA.
April 6, 2021

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056-000 as it would be devastating to the environment and highly disruptive to local communities. In a pandemic world, this is of no small matter. We need to preserve critical infrastructure, jobs, and environmental havens.

Tourism is an integral part of the NYS economy and continues to grow. Tourism generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019. A $1.6 billion industry in the region, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs o Ulster County represents 43% of that market o Second homes generate $360 million in economic activity. Source: Tourism Economics, “Economic Impact of Tourism in NY, 2019”

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885 in Ulster County. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly fragmented environment; the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index.

As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” According to The Catskill Park: Inside the Blue Line-Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.

Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a process that already displaced thousands when the Ashokan was constructed 100 years ago.

This is not the innovation that Department of Energy would want. Closed-loop projects are considered to have smaller environmental impact and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval; that’s why Premium is claiming to be “closed loop.” Projects where an upper reservoir is added to an existing lower reservoir are known as “add-on” projects; that is what this really is. Premium Energy Holdings is grievously misrepresenting the facts.

Have we not learned our lessons from the past? Can we not seek a more suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources?
Looking at all the facts and negative impacts, it would be irresponsible to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Please do the right thing, listen to the collective voices of those most impacted by this decision and the generations to follow, and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Passionately,
Rosemary L. Anderson
Frequent visitor to Ulster County
4rlaing@gmail.com





