

Marc Rubin, Lanesville, NY.
  As a long time resident of Lanesville NY and owner of a local business I would like to submit my vigorous opposition to the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings. I am a strong advocate for renewable energy projects, however   the Catskill locations proposed are untenable.
  All the proposed sites fall within the Catskill Forest Preserve, which according to the NYS constitution “ shall be forever kept wild forest”. Usurping this caveat would require a constitutional amendment that is rarely passed. The original amendment was initiated to protect this precious land resource and should not be altered.  All the proposed sites fall within the Status 1 designation under the USGS Gap Analysis Program, which voids development according to the Department of Energy’s “Hydropower Vision”.
  The project would adversely affect the streams and waterways by increasing turbidity.  The streams are already fragile and any further development threatens the local ecology and fauna.  Recreational fishing is a prime attraction for this area and helps the local economy flourish. The project jeopardizes trout breeding grounds and falls within the  “ Audubon’s Catskill Peak Important Bird Area”. We cannot afford to threaten these resources. The turbidity also puts at risk the quality of the drinking water that serves 9 million residents of NYC. 
  The proposed site intersecting Route 214 in Lanesville is a designated “scenic byway” and a primary thoroughfare connecting difficult to access portions of the mountains.  Disrupting or voiding this passage   would increase travel times up to an hour and adversely affect the tourism economy of the town.
  The proposal by Premium Energy classifies the project as a closed loop system. This is misleading at best and deceitful at worst. The project is an add- on system with a much stronger environmental impact.  The affect on the existing reservoir could be extremely detrimental. 
  All the local municipalities are strongly opposed to this project.  Given the environmental and economic impact and political and legal hurdles to overcome… this project should be stopped in its tracks before further investments make it more difficult to halt.


