

Maxine Davidowitz, West Shokan, NY.
I want to strenuously object to the Premium Energy Holdings proposal to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. Please decline their request...it would be devastating to the environment and will not provide the net positive clean energy we need. As well, it will be disastrous to tourism, to the natural environment, and be highly disruptive to local communities. Not to mention risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water as well as local wells.
Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that the lands that are earmarked for destruction “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land and would set a terrible precedent for protected lands across the country. The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat. The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index.

Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a traumatic event that happened here over 100 years ago, and the region still bears the scars. Residents displaced would likely have a hard time finding new homes in the area, given our current housing shortage in Ulster County. The Catskill region is also a $1.6 billion tourism industry, generating 17% of the employment  in 2019, and supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir. It supplies 40% of NYC’s water, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. Plus, Premium Energy’s proposal mis-identifies it as a closed-loop system—it is in fact an “add-on,” which is not recommended by your agency. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. The water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed—the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation that represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, so that they can go back to the drawing board and find an alternative location — one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, threaten the water supply of the nation's largest city, and wreak havoc on incredibly important natural resources.



