

Jeff Notti, Mount Tremper, NY.
The Catskill park was established in 1885 and protected by the New York State Constitution  which declares the park  “shall be forever  kept as wild forest lands [and] shall not be leased, sold or exchanged , to be taken by any corporation public or private”. 

The proposal of a 300 foot deep hydroelectric plant and a 200 foot dam, will devastate the highly preserved and protected land.  It would negatively impact the stream ecology of the Ashokan watershed. This will directly threaten NYC’s water supply.  

The upheaval and destruction of the Ashokan Reservoir is a disastrous plan.  The damage to the watershed arises from the construction of the dam and the pipe line to underground plant.  This will severely damage the trout spawning tributaries of the Esopus. Not to mention the tearing up the sides of two mountains is never a good idea.  

The alternative location is an even worse disaster.  Route 214 going up the Stony Clove to hunter is extremely narrow, with stunning views of the mountains with incredible hiking through out. 

Moon Haw Road, and Chichester communities may be removed by eminent domain, this is not a pretty picture.  The Sundown Wild Forest could be impacted as well as the communities along the Dry Brook (creek). The water way between Phoenicia and Chichester along the Stony Clove is stunningly beautiful as it the dive to Peekmoose  passed Moon Haw Road.  The level of construction necessary could potentially be a disaster for the Catskill Preserve.  Heavy construction along 214 could demand a revamping of the entire road way in order to accommodate heavy construction.  There would be effects on the Hunter West Kill Wilderness and the Indian Head Wilderness.  The cement production alone for the related constructions produces more pollutants than will be saved by the “clean” power form the electric plant.  

Clearly the Sturgeon Pond Hydro plant can be upgraded refitted with modern turbines with far less impact and less cost, similarly the way the Niagara turbines were revamped.    

Do you really want to be seen as a representative that condoned the destruction of this beautiful environment? 


