

siobhan joan dolan, Phoenicia, NY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       William Apfel & Siobhan J. Dolan
1380 Woodland Valley Road
Phoenicia, NY 12464
April 7th, 2021

Secretary Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000 

Dear Secretary Bose,

We strongly oppose Premium Energy’s proposal to build a hydroelectric power plant, in NYS’s Catskill Mountains.  We urge the Commission to reject their request for any kind of permit for the Ashokan pumped storage project (P-15056-000).  It would:
•	Highly disrupt many local communities
•	Contaminate NYC’s drinking water
•	Devastate the natural environment

The pumped storage and hydroelectric project could play a role in the United States transition to renewable energy, but the pristinely protected forests, streams and wildlife of the Catskill Forest Preserve cannot and must not be sacrificed.  Article XIV of the New York State Constitution guarantees that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private”.  The Catskill Preserve currently consists of 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat and the forest surrounding the proposed sites rank among the top 1% of forest habitats in the region, as per the State Forest Condition Index.  It would be a horror to destroy this jewel of land and set a terrible precedent.

We understand that pumped storage is known to destroy the ecology of water and land habitats. In the complicated process of a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as water is pumped in both directions. 
This will affect:
•	Wildlife
•	Trout breeding waters
•	The Esopus Creek feeding the Ashokan Reservoir

In addition, we are concerned about people losing their homes and creating an even further shortage of housing. We worry about the negative consequences to the tourism industry, the economic engine of the area. Recreational activities like hiking and fishing would be seriously altered, especially since the area has so long been a “trout capital” of the nation.  We also are concerned about threatening or endangering certain animal species of the region.

Lastly, we have been informed by reputable sources of questionable statements made by Premium Energy Holdings, as stated in their plan.
Needless to say, we are terribly alarmed.  Please reject Premium Energy Holding’s proposal for a permit.

Sincerely,

William A. Apfel
Siobhan Joan Dolan


