

Jennifer E Rossa, Beacon, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in opposition to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water. 

I am one of many people who currently enjoy hiking in this protected area, and I believe it is vital for the economic health and environmental sustainability of the region that this project not go forward in this region.

I understand the need for new hydroelectric projects, but protected forests, streams and wildlife should not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment).

This project is not the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Premium's claim that this project is “closed-loop” is false. This is an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

A transition to green energy should not be attained at the cost of other sustainable living goals. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely, Jennifer Rossa

