

Paul Dippolito, New York, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to express concern and voice opposition to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant and storage dam/reservoir in the Catskill Mountains of New York State (Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056).  The plans for this project are vague and poorly described in the proposal, and have been egregiously misrepresented in their application to FERC.

Two of the three options proposed--Alternatives 1 and 2 in the application--will flood large sections of land that is designated Wilderness Preserve by New York State, protected under Article XIV of the state constitution, which states that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

For over 40 years New York State has been fiercely protective of the ecology of the Mid-Hudson Valley, particularly of those lands that fall within the watershed providing potable unfiltered drinking water to the 9 million residents of New York City. Any effort to compromise these lands will certainly be met with a protracted legal challenge by the state, and I have to wonder if Premium Energy has taken into account in their plans the lengthy, costly, and well-publicized resistance they are sure to meet.

The third proposed location (Application 3)--as it is described in the proposal--would almost certainly require severing north-south access on State Rt. 214. Even a brief topographical study of the terrain leading north to Stony Clove Notch makes clear the impossibility of providing vehicular access around such a dam and reservoir.  NYS Rt. 214 is the only road between Ulster and Greene counties for 25 miles, and the vehicular fuel necessary to circumvent this loss of access to residential, commercial and recreational traffic is sure to offset any possible benefit of energy storage provided by the facility.

Finally, Premium Energy Holdings describes the facility inaccurately to FERC.  Page 11 of the proposal states “The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop.”  This is not correct; the Ashokan is not a closed waterway, but part of the continuous flow of water from the upper reaches of the Catskills to the Hudson River. Such a clear oversight--if not intentional misrepresentation--in their proposal should alone disqualify Premium Energy from approval for a preliminary permit.

I thank you for the opportunity to express my opposition to this proposal.

Best Regards

Paul Dippolito
928 Columbus Avenue 3S
New York, NY 10025

917-646-9708



