

Gretchen Hartman, Phoenicia, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street
Washington DC 20426

Docket P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose

I am Gretchen Hartman. I have lived at 945 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia since July 1977.

I am writing to urge you to reject the deeply flawed proposal submitted by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Mountains.

This project must be rejected because it will have a serious negative economic impact on the region.  And an additional complexity as implementation of this project would require a NYS Constitutional Amendment involving passage through both Houses of New York State Legislature and a sign off by the Governor. 

The proposed project would disrupt the environment of the Catskill Forest Preserve, 700,000 acres of critical habitat in an increasingly fragmented world. It will Flood over 200 acres of private land and protected state forests to construct a new reservoir

The new reservoir would be connected to the Ashokan Reservoir by a tunnel up to 50 feet wide and many miles long, drilled under both public and private lands, and the erection of 12.9 miles of 230kV high-tension transmission lines.

It will severely disrupt and increase turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding streams, which serve as a primary source of unfiltered drinking water for 9 million New York residents. It will severely disrupt existing regional wells and septic systems which in turn will negatively affect the quality of water regionally and in New York City.  

Premium Energy, in a proposal that demonstrates total lack of understanding of the Catskill region, misrepresents its project as a “closed loop” design. In truth, it is an “add-on” design with worse environmental impacts.

We clearly recognize the need for our nation and world to transition to green-energy sources. However, this proposed effort is not a green-energy effort. It will destroy important wilderness areas, negatively affect wildlife, contaminate local wells and septic systems, negatively impact the drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers.

I urge you, to reject the Premium Energy Proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.    

Gretchen E Hartman


