

Wendy wrothkopf, West Shokan, NY.
Wendy Rothkopf
3683 Route 28A
P.O. Box 52
West Shokan, NY 12494

									April 8, 2021
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

RE: FERC Project No. 15056-000, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, submitted by Premium Energy Holdings LLC, Walnut, CA.

Dear Ms. Bose;

As a resident of West Shokan, NY and the preserved lands of the Catskill Watershed, I am writing to protest the application of Premium Energy Holdings LLC for a pumped storage system in this area.  

1.	 The application refers to a closed loop system.  This is false.  They plan to create a secondary body of water, rather than connect an existing body of water, to the Ashokan Reservoir.  This is not a closed loop system but an add-on system which, aside from the fact that it is not energy efficient as claimed, would have a negative impact on a.  the environment and the endangered species and waterways therein b.  create turbidity and pollution in the streams of the Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir, the former containing a fragile trout population/ecosystem and the latter supplying 40% of New York City’s drinking water and c. countermanding NY State Constitutional Article XIV, which states that the lands of the Catskill Forest Preserve “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  

2.	It is required by law that any change to this land provision requires an amendment to the state Constitution, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.


3.	The lands surrounding this proposed referendum would necessitate the implementation of Eminent Domain, a process that is unacceptable in these preserved lands – a process that can devastate both public and private properties in the area now as it did when the original Ashokan Reservoir project was built in 1905.

4.	The county of Ulster contains a highly valuable tourism business with a commensurate employment rate, all of which would be disrupted by the proposed Storage project.  Premium Energy’s proposal would limit access to hiking, fishing , dining, and skiing as well as other forms of entertainment and recreation in the area.

All told, The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project has been submitted under false pretenses, is antithetical to the fundamentals of “Green Energy” and would have a long-term, negative impact on the lives of local community members and the fragile, preserved Catskill Watershed lands in which they have chosen to live.

Respectfully yours,

Wendy Rothkopf


