

Amy Fradon, Woodstock, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, DC 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms.Bose,

I am writing in reference and opposition to the proposed Hydroelectric pumping station project with Premium Energy Holdings for the Ashokan Reservoir area in upstate NY. I strongly urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. The environmental and community-wide disruptive extent of this project would be immense.

Two points that stand out to me.   

The Catskill Forest Preserve is protected by our NY State Constitution Article XIV, for important reasons. Wildlife and plantlife need vast swaths of land to be successful and this preserve is 700,000 continuous acres of land. This is an increasingly rare occurrence in our modern world. Continuous preserved land is essential to biological success and necessary to our overall survival on the planet. The Constitution clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

The second point is the almost complete disruption and displacement of entire communities that are the fabric of our economy, our character, our tourism and our history. People have visited the Catskills for decades because of the rural, historic beauty and charm of our local communities. This must be considered.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources. I would also hope that our government would begin to really introduce the practice of conservation of resources as a collective and viable way to generate less and less energy so that storage that can devastate large, protected areas, is not the first option we seek.

Thank you for your consideration,

Amy Fradon


