

Philip Ficks, Cincinnati, OH.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A 
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

As an ardent Catskills hiker and fisherman, I am writing in opposition to the proposed pumped-storage hydroelectric facility within the boundaries of the Forever Wild lands of the Catskill Forest Preserve. This project will have negative impacts on both the Ashokan Reservoir and its surrounding area. The proposal directly threatens the experience of trail users in the Catskill Forest Preserve, the ecological sustainability of the Forest Preserve, trout breeding grounds, the quality of the New York City water supply, and the economy of the region.

The Catskills are a State Preserve protected by the New York State Constitution. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

The Catskills are a major hiking destination that draws people from all over the Northeast. 
The proposed dam, reservoir, powerhouse, pipeline, and subsequent powerlines will significantly and permanently damage the viewshed and the trail user experience on multiple hiking trails in areas designated as Wilderness. 

The road closures caused by the proposed pumped storage project will eliminate vital access points to popular hiking destinations and recreational resources. The elimination of these trailheads will force increased usage in other areas of the Forest Preserve and magnify the negative ecological impacts that have happened over the past 12 months due to the unprecedented visitation on these trails during the pandemic. 

The required powerline right of ways will cross different ecosystems fragmenting habitat, cause the clearing of sensitive vegetation, and create pathways for the spread of invasive species. There is also unnecessary risk of the introduction of invasive species into the Forest Preserve during construction of facilities, as was cited in a Pennsylvania State University study of gas drilling platforms. 

The lands and waterways that support the native flora and fauna, which are synonymous with the Forest Preserve, would be irreversibly damaged and affected by the construction of new dams and reservoirs. The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. Also, all proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area. See https:// www.audubon.org/important-bird-areas/catskills-peaks-area 

Additionally, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

This plan would increase turbidity and negatively impact New York City’s drinking water. Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. Altering the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment regime in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and part of the New York City water supply. Valuable trout breeding habitat would be lost. It would also affect fishing, boating, and swimming, all critical draws for a region dependent on tourism.

Rerouting Route 214, a Scenic Byway, would be incredibly disruptive. It is a major transportation artery for the Catskills, one of few roads that connect the central and northern regions. The loss of tourist dollars and business revenue caused by this construction project would directly hurt the local communities. It would significantly impact access to skiing at Hunter Mountain and summer concerts in Phoenicia, Hunter, and Tannersville.

I understand that sometimes sacrifices need to be made for our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources, but I do not believe it should come at the cost of environmental and economic devastation. Please reject the Premium Energy proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056-000.  

Sincerely,
Philip Ficks


