

Carol Seitz, Phoenicia, NY.
Carol Seitz /Harry Jameson
1230 Woodland Valley Rd
Phoenicia, NY
12464

4/7/21

Ms Kimberly Bose, Secretary							
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington, DC
20426

Re: Project P-15056-000

Dear Secretary Bose,

  We are writing in opposition to the project proposed by Premium Energy for the Catskill Park region. 

   The permit application filed by Premium Energy should be rejected for it’s large number of mistakes, falsehoods and omissions. The first and most glaring falsehood is that the Premium Energy project is not a closed loop project. The Ashokan reservoir, which is proposed as the lower reservoir, is an open body of water that ultimately flows through the Lower Esopus and into the Hudson River. So the “closed-loop” system claim is false.  An open loop system will have a greater amount of potential impacts all the way down the line. And, in any project that uses this body of water, the residents of the downstream towns should be identified and notified before any permit is approved. 

   The preliminary maps for the upper reservoirs show that two are, in whole or in part, within the boundries of the Town of Shandaken. The town should have been named as an interested party as should all the towns of 5000+ residents within fifteen miles of Shandaken. Not all of these towns have been identified or notified.

  And, while we understand the maps are preliminary, and Ulster County has already been named within the application, the map of the Stony Clove site on Rt 214 clearly shows the project crossing into the next county and town, neither of which has been named as an interested party on this application.

  The following statement from the permit application is wholly incorrect.  “The proposed upper reservoir alternatives: Stony Clove Reservoir, Woodland Reservoir or Wittenberg Reservoir, would be created in the New York’s State lands.” It seems that the maps of the area have been egregiously misread. The park was created many, many years after the lands within its boundaries were bought and settled by individuals. So, while still being in the confines of the Catskill Park, most of the land proposed for the upper reservoirs is privately owned. In Woodland Valley alone 75 to 100 homes would be flooded to make way for the “upper reservoir”. As well as another 100+ homes , ours included, would lose the use of Woodland Valley Road, which is their only access to their property. None of the home/property owners of the Woodland Valley properties or the other two upper reservoir sites have been identified or notified. 

  Also, flooding Woodland Valley would cut off access to the Woodland Valley Campground. This campground is a NY State owned facility (one of the state’s oldest) that, according to the DEC’s most recent Unit Management Plan, 1994, has 70 campsites and is used by over 5400 campers and at least 2600 day use visitors annually.  There is also a second privately owned campground in Woodland Valley,  that also serves the many tourists who come to visit this area and contributes to the tourist economy of the area. This facility was also not named in the permit application but would be flooded if the current maps are followed and as such should have been identified and notified. 

   The majority of the NY State lands that are proposed for use within this application are part of the Catskill Park “forever wild” designated lands. This historic designation was intended to preserve these forests for the protection and enjoyment of the residents and our visitors. These protections were legislated by and for the people of New York State and would require a New York State constitutional amendment to change. No mention of this fact was made in the application.

     For these reasons as well as others we feel this application is poorly executed and deficient and as such should be rejected. And while we understand the need for hydro-electric energy in our future renewable energy mix we want to make clear that we feel this project comes at too high of a cost to our state and our community. 

  Sincerely,
Carol Seitz and Harry Jameson


