

Meghan Taylor, Rockville Centre, NY.
I am writing to urge you to reject the proposal submitted by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Mountains. I write as a lifelong visitor to the area - to see the destruction of this key resource in New York is devastating.  This project is deeply flawed on a number of fronts: It is extremely invasive to the community that resides there and will impact not just their environment but the thriving tourism that currently exists there. Even more critical is habitat destruction for the local wildlife, flora, and fauna. Finally, this project will have a lasting negative impact on the reservoir that is New York’s drinking water supply.  Technically I urge that the project must be rejected because:
 
1. The proposed site is on designated Status 1 land, and federal policy explicitly directs that Status 1 and 2 land areas are highly protected and must be avoided for development. This proposal would demand a Constitutional Amendment passed by the NYS Legislature and signed by the Governor. This barrier alone is sufficient to stop the proposal, in its tracks, at this very moment.
 
2.The proposed project will severely disrupt and increase turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding streams, which serve as a primary source of unfiltered drinking water for 9 million New York residents.
 
3. The flawed application misrepresents its project as a “closed loop” design. In truth, it is an “add-on” design with worse environmental impacts.
 
4.The project raises numerous legal issues regarding States’ rights and land reservation.
 
5. The proposed site is home to protected species of wildlife and flora/fauna, as well as historical and cultural artifacts and sites.

Additionally, comments from Premium Energy's Leadership demonstrate that the Company itself has seriously erred in their proposal development by presenting a plan that even they admit is faulty:

 "The Ashokan project will be built only with the cooperation of the community. We don’t want to harm or damage nothing or no one. It looks like the first choice of upper reservoir was a bad choice. There is a community in that location. This site alternative therefore will not be any longer pursue it."
 
"Also, since this reservoir belongs to the city of New York, if the city of New York deems this project not safe for the integrity of the water supply to the City, this project will not happen."

We clearly recognize the need for our nation and world to transition to green-energy sources. However, this proposed effort is not a green-energy effort. It will destroy important wilderness areas, negatively affect wildlife, contaminate local wells and septic systems, negatively impact the drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers.
 
I urge you, as a responsible public official, to reject the Premium Energy Proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.    

