

Vera Zamorsky, West Shokan, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

Premium Energy Holdings has proposed to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as this add-on (NOT closed loop) system would be devastating to the environment.

The Catskill Forest Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. 

And the destruction would not simply stop when construction on this project did. Premium says this is a “closed loop” system but the project’s lower reservoir would remain continuously connected to the natural flowing water feature that was damned for its initial construction. Pumped storage will disrupt nearby stream ecology and both aquatic and land habitats as the pumping causes rapid water and unnatural and violent fluctuations. This in turn would affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters. There is nothing “closed” about it. 

The Esopus is also of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. It would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources is an undeniable and very important goal, and I certain recognize the scope of the task you have before you. However, I hope you will agree that it makes no sense to approve projects, such as this one, which will decimate and destroy the very environment they are purporting to protect. 

I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Vera Zamorsky


