

Louis Mellet, Armonk, NY.
I agree with all of the reasons below why this project should not move forward:

• Impacts on highly preserved land
o A Highly Preserved Land
▪ The Catskills Forest Preserve created in 1885 in Ulster County
▪ Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild
forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any
corporation, public or private.”
▪ The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly
fragmented environment; the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the
top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest
Condition Index.
▪ All proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area:
see https:// www.audubon.org/important-bird-areas/catskills-peaks-area
▪ As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land
under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own
Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2
under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”
▪ According to The Catskill Park: Inside the Blue Line-Changes to land management
in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment,
voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to
the public in a referendum
• Impacts on Stream Ecology
▪ Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water
which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats 
▪ Altering the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment
regime in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and part of the
NYC water supply
▪ Valuable trout breeding habitat would be lost
• Impacts to NYC water supply
o According to the DEP-Provides 40% of NYC’s water, a water supply that provides 1 billion
gallons a day to 9.5 million people
o The largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, built at the cost of displacing 25
communities
o A NYC valuable capital asset, representing billions of dollars of investment; $1.7 billion
since the 1990s alone
o Meets current NYC needs, but climate change produces uncertainty about its future
ability to do so: evaporation, heat events, and decreasing snowpack.
• Impacts on Catskills tourism economy
o Tourism is an integral part of the NYS economy and continues to grow
o Tourism generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019
o A $1.6 billion industry in the region, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs
o Ulster County represents 43% of that market
o Second homes generate $360 million in economic activity
▪ Source: Tourism Economics, “Economic Impact of Tourism in NY, 2019”
• This is not the innovation that Department of Energy would want
o Closed-loop projects are considered to have smaller environmental impact and are thus
eligible for streamlined FERC approval; that’s why Premium is claiming to be “closedloop.”
o • Projects where an upper reservoir is added to an existing lower reservoir are known as
“add-on” projects; that’s what this really is. They are lying.
o • “Initial construction impacts” for these projects are lower, but “operational impacts are
still likely to be higher than for a closed-loop project because the addon project’s lower
reservoir is still continuously connected to, and may affect, the natural flowing water
feature that was dammed for its original construction.”
▪ Source: DoE: “A Comparison of the Env. Effects of Open Loop and Closed-Loop
Pumped Storage Hydropower.” April 2020

