

Tania Zamorsky, Olivebridge, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. Because of the proposal’s numerous deficiencies, I am asking FERC to decline their request even for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as in my opinion, it is flawed from a legal, procedural, technical and moral perspective.

Legally and procedurally/practically, the proposal is ill-advised:
 
•	NYS Constitution’s Article XIV provides that the Catskill Forest Preserve, created in 1885, “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 
•	As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are also considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”  
•	According to The Catskill Park: Inside the Blue Line-Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum. 

Next, based upon my research, I do not believe this company’s project description is even technically accurate. No doubt aware that the Department of Energy views “closed loop” pumped storage projects favorably, given their smaller environmental impacts, Premium Energy mischaracterizing their project as such when in fact it is actually an “add-on” project due to its use of an existing watershed as a lower reservoir.
 
While initial construction impacts for these projects may seem lower, they will ultimately be higher (than for a true closed loop project) because the add-on project’s lower reservoir is still continuously connected to the natural flowing water feature that was damned for its initial construction. Such add-on projects are risky and disruptive enough, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city, New York City, as the Ashokan Reservoir in this case is, and which this project will directly jeopardize. 

How can we trust the quality¬¬--and ongoing attention and care that will be required—of a project that is, at best, this arguably sloppy and inexact from the get-go? Please do not reward this company by granting them the streamlined FERC approval they are trying to gain with what in my opinion is a mischaracterization of this project’s essential and technical nature.

Finally, from a moral perspective Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply and disproportionately damaging to local communities. (And dismissing this point as a mere “NIMBY” argument would be as inaccurate as the characterization of this as a “closed loop” system.)
 
Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the eminent domain seizure of homes and private property that already saw thousands of such seizures (including the flooding of entire valleys; the loss of entire towns; the taking of homes, churches, schools and graveyards of extended and multigenerational families) when the Ashokan itself was constructed, only a few generations ago. 

To the NIMBY point, I would ask you to consider, exactly how many “backyards” must one community be asked and expected to surrender? 

History aside, residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would face real difficulties securing new housing, as there is currently a severe shortage of affordable housing in Ulster County, which has only been exacerbated by the Covid pandemic. And, even if they could find alternate housing, this project’s devastating impact on the local tourism and outdoor recreation economy—which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs—would threaten their ability to afford these new homes. This ripple effect would in turn negatively affect businesses in Ulster County, and well beyond. These effects are unjustifiably disproportionate.

In sum, our country’s critical transition to renewable, green-energy sources demands that we proceed responsibly, and with accuracy, fairness, due process and proper proportion. If that transition is undertaken and implemented crudely and incorrectly—and in name only—we will defeat its very purpose and cause significantly more harm than good. 

I thank you for the important role you play in this process and urge you to deny this proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


Sincerely,

Tania Zamorsky


