

Deborah Glick, New York, NY.
April 8, 2021

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426

Re: FERC P-15056-000

To Whom It May Concern,

As the New York State Assemblymember representing the 66th district in Manhattan, I am writing to vehemently oppose the application by Premium Energy Holdings LLC for a preliminary permit to explore building an underground hydroelectric power plant at the Ashokan Reservoir (docket P-15056-000). 

The Ashokan Reservoir, located in Ulster County, is a critical water source for New York City, and provides over 40 percent of the city’s drinking water. Premium’s proposal would create a large and intricate new underground power plant, with construction including the creation of a new reservoir, new tunnels to pump water to and from the existing reservoir, and generators to capture energy created by the flow of water between the two reservoirs.

The proposal is concerning for a number of reasons. Most importantly, it was undertaken without any consultation with New York City’s Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) or with the local municipalities surrounding the Ashokan Reservoir. The DEP and local governments were only notified of the proposal following your agency’s release of a notice of application in February, and have raised significant concerns. Premium, the applicant, is based in California and local authorities have pointed to a lack of knowledge of the Ashokan and surrounding areas, ranging from basic errors in their mapping to the proposed placements of the new upper reservoir, which in one case would require the flooding of an entire residential community (Woodland Valley). The proposed new reservoir sites also appear to fall within State lands that have been designated as “forever wild,” a major legal hurdle that the project would have great difficulty overcoming. 

Of greatest concern for my constituents, Premium’s proposal would also represent a substantial risk for the city’s water supply. Catskill Moutainkeeper, a regional environmental advocacy group, has stated that the project has the potential to increase turbidity in the Ashokan, stirring up solids and compromising the quality of the reservoir. Turbidity is already a challenge for the Ashokan, and this project presents an unacceptable threat to the water supply of over 9 million New Yorkers. 

Premium has argued that hydroelectric power is a necessary component of moving to fully green energy sources, as they’re able to provide power at night when solar and wind power are less effective. I do not disagree - I am committed to New York State’s plans to move toward renewable energy, and believe that hydroelectricity will be essential to meeting our goals. We are lucky that New York State has a number of waterways that would be good candidates for smaller scale hydroelectric projects that would make use of our existing landscape and produce minimal impacts on the surrounding land and communities. Premium states that the value of the plant they propose is in the substantial amount of energy that would be captured, but that energy is not worth the impacts or risk, especially when the opportunity for more suitable projects exists. 

The Ashokan Reservoir also provides a substantial economic benefit to its surrounding communities. The Ashokan Rail Trail, which opened in 2019, offers 11.5 miles of accessible trail that gives users access to the north rim of the reservoir for the first time in  a century. The Rail Trail has proven to be extremely popular, drawing users from New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and beyond, and bringing millions of dollars in local spending with them. The economy of the region relies on the Rail Trail’s recreational value, as well as the many investments New York State has made to support agriculture and a growing industry of craft beers and spirits distillers that depend on other fresh water sources that could be imperiled by extensive construction in the areas around the reservoir. The Rail Trail has been especially valuable during the COVID-19 pandemic, offering New York City residents and others a safe place to get outside and enjoy nature while remaining socially distanced. The extensive construction required by Premium’s proposal would substantially impact the use and enjoyment of this important resource, and with it the economy and health of the region.  

I encourage FERC to support projects that show a deep understanding of the natural resources being developed; include the meaningful engagement of local and impacted governments and communities; and whose risks to communities are minimal unless shown to be absolutely necessary. The Premium proposal meets none of those standards, and instead risks the contamination of New York City’s drinking water and the wellbeing of upstate communities. For these reasons, I ask that you reject this application.

Thank you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,

Deborah J. Glick
Assemblymember


