

Anne Bloomfield, Olivebridge, NY.
Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426

Re: Project P-15056 Ashokan Pumped Storage 

Dear Secretary Bose:

I am an Ecologist at the manager level for a local non-profit along the Esopus Creek in Hurley, NY. In addition, I hunt, hike and fish in the Catskills and own property in the Town of Olive. Finally, I will include that, as a supporter of renewable energy, I own solar panels in a local community solar array on property owned by a local church. All of these credentials have allowed me to examine the request for preliminary work for the pumped storage project by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC in a holistic manner.  As an Ecologist, I tend to review such cases as scientifically and objectively as possible. I have concluded that this is not merely a “not in my backyard” situation. Renewable energy production and storage is important infrastructure to consider. But it must be “the right project in the right place”. Based on the evidence I have in front of me, this project is not a good for fit the geographic area. I have outlined the reasons below. 

1.	State Constitution ARTICLE XIV- CONSERVATION This project is not compatible with the states desire to protect and preserve forests and wildlife.  Article XIV in the New York State constitution states, “ Forest preserve to be forever kept wild; authorized uses and exceptions] Section 1. The lands of the state, now owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private… forest and wildlife conservation are hereby declared to be policies of the state”. Honor the State’s constitution as it pertains to biodiversity conservation, clean air and water when evaluating such projects
2.	Ecological Services and the “Public Benefit” The potential benefits of the project are minimal to the “public good” compared to the value of these lands for conservation of biodiversity as well as the ecological services provided to the People of the Unites States by such lands. The benefits of unfragmented, protected forest preserve land to the people of the United States are many but to name a few: mitigation of extreme weather events, pollination and pest control services, clean water and clean air. The potential benefits of this project do not outweigh the loss or reduction of these services. Considering a project such as this within the “Blue Line” of the Catskill Forest Preserve is irresponsible and sets a dangerous precedent. A project such as this should not even be considered on protected public lands state, federal or otherwise due to their value to the public benefit as well as to biodiversity conservation. Recognize the public benefit of services provided by protected public land
3.	Premium energy proposal is not the type of project encouraged by DOE The project is not closed loop as proposed due to the fact that the Esopus Creek runs into and out of the Ashokan Reservoir. The DOE has promoted closed loop projects, which this project is not, despite its proposal as such. An April 2020 Department of Energy report (Hydrowires) concluded that “the environmental effects of closed-loop projects are generally lower (i.e., more localized and of shorter duration) than those of open-loop projects because they: (1) are located “off-stream,” potentially minimizing aquatic and terrestrial impacts, and; (2) often have greater siting flexibility than open-loop projects. In particular, the impacts to aquatic resources are typically lower for closed-loop projects than for open-loop, as closed-loop projects are not continuously connected to any naturally-flowing body of water. This avoids the movement of water between reservoir and free-flowing water that drives many impacts of open-loop projects. For closed-loop projects, the impacts on aquatic resources are primarily related to the initial withdrawal of surface water for reservoir fill, which could reduce the availability of surface water for other uses.”  Deny  projects that are not in line with the type of projects the DOE is encouraging 
4.	Impacts to forest preserve ecology As stated previously, such lands not only provide valuable services to the People of the United States, they also provide immense value in terms of biodiversity conservation. The biodiversity crisis is a global crisis. Unfragmented protected lands such as the Catskill Forest Preserve are critical to reversing the rapid and alarming loss of biodiversity globally. Siting a project such as this within the Catskill Forest Preserve would be unforgivable from a biodiversity conservation prospective. Help solve, not worsen the biodiversity crisis, respect and protect our forest preserve lands.
5.	The Filtration Avoidance Determination The FAD as it relates to the NYC watershed and water supply would need to be renegotiated with the USEPA before preliminary work on this project could proceed. Protect the NYC watershed and drinking water supply for nearly 9 million Americans

To conclude my examination of this project proposal, I respectfully request that FERC deny approval at this stage. 

Sincerely,

Anne Bloomfield, Wildlife Biologist, Olivebridge, NY 12461



DOE Report
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2020/04/f73/comparison-of-environmental-effects-open-loop-closed-loop-psh-1.pdf
NYS Constitution Article XIV Conservation: https://www.dos.ny.gov/info/constitution/article_14_conservation.html 



