

Ellen A Lerner, Chichester, NY.
Ellen Lerner, Chichester, NY
FERC Project Number P-15056:000

To Whom it May Concern,
I am a resident of Chichester, NY (Ulster County) and am writing to oppose granting a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings, it is misleading and deficient.

There is definitely a need to reduce our need for fossil fuels and become more reliant on renewable energy.  The Catskill area is not the place for a project like this without irreversibly damaging the state preserved forest land, wildlife and waterways. 

Premium Energy Holding's proposal is misleading and deficient.  The project is located in the heart of Catskills Forest Preserve when the proposal says it is not...This is  700,000 acres of land protected by Article XIV of the New York State Constitution.  The Article states these lands shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold and exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.  To change the above would require a constitutional amendment that is voted on twice by the New York State Legislature and submitted to the public in a referendum.

In a hydropower project such as what is being proposed , the fluctuations of pumped water would increase the turbidity of the New York City water supply.  The Catskills provide 40% of New York Cities drinking water.  This project would wreak havoc on land and water wildlife and their habitat.  

The Catskills Forest Preserve is essential to many protected, rare and threatened species such as:

Northern long-eared bat, black throated blue warbler, scarlet tanager, wood thrush, cooper hawk, red-shouldered hawk, sharp-shinned hawk, Eastern hognose snake and timber rattlesnake, northern cricket frog.  Trout's ability to spawn would be destroyed.

Also misleading in Premium Energy Holding proposal is describing it as a closed-loop system when it is clearly an open-loop design. This will have major impact on the free-flowing Stony Clove Creek.  My family has lived on the Stony Clove creek Since 1927.  This area has received funding from the NYC DEP Stream Management Program, the US Army Corps of Engineers under the Watershed Environmental Assistance Program and New York State DEC.  The effort and money put into these projects has greatly improved the quality of water, the health of the creek and the turbidity that had been plaguing the waterway

The proposed project would inflict damage on the ecology of the state protected land in a way that would be immeasurable.  In addition to the financial well being of the area and its businesses.  I urge  you to deny Premium  Energy Holding's preliminary permit so the Catskills Forest Preserve is not destroyed permanently.

Sincerely,

Ellen Lerner
5 Stony Clove Lane
Chichester, NY 12416


