

Margaret Cogswell-Kolb, West Shokan, NY.
As a resident of both New York City and West Shokan, I stand in firm opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ ill-conceived proposal for a Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, FERC Project No. 15056 - a proposal which would have a serious negative impact on both communities.  

The Ashokan Reservoir was built over 100 years ago for the sole purpose of providing drinking water for NYC and now provides 40% of the drinking water for its 9.5 million people.  Subsequently, the streams that flow into it are strictly monitored and protected, as are the surrounding lands and forests so as not to disrupt NYC’s water quality and quantity.  Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to build a hydroelectric pump station in the upper basin of the Ashokan Reservoir would violate strict regulations of the surrounding land and water use.  It would increase turbidity in both the streams and reservoir, thus negatively impacting the drinking water for over  9.5  million people in the City of New York. 

The building of this reservoir over 100 years ago destroyed 12 towns and displaced 1000’s of people.  Now, Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to build a hydroelectric pump station in the Ashokan Reservoir, along with tunnels, dams, turbines and additional reservoirs, would again displace and/or destroy surrounding communities, as well as destroy parts of the Catskill Forest Preserves.  The Catskill Forest Preserves are protected by New York State and considered as Status #1 land.  Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Any change in land management of  the Catskill Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum. This, in itself, should prove how seriously ill-conceived and flawed this proposal by Premium Energy Holdings is.

Additionally, with climate change, we have already been witnessing frequent drought conditions in the upper basin of the Ashokan, therefore already rendering unreliable the amount of water available just to adequately meet NYC’s needs which is the primary and sole purpose for the existence of the Ashokan Reservoir in the first place.  Building a hydroelectric pump station would compete for usage of the same water supplying NYC and would subsequently be an additional strain on the system.  This would result in both systems being seriously compromised and rendered incapable of performing the functions they were meant to fulfill. 

Sustainable and renewable energy is important, but it must be done with a smart, well researched,  and well considered plan.  This plan is ill-conceived and full of outrageous assumptions and even more serious flaws not mentioned here.  

Please do everything in your power to prevent this proposal from moving forward and deny Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-1.

Thank you.
 
Sincerely,
Margaret Cogswell-Kolb




