

Tomos Evans, Hurley, NY.
To:
 Kimberly D. Bose Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First St. NE, Room 1A Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in regard to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. 

I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, the negative impact on the local environment -  ecological, economic and at a grassroots community level - simply vastly outweigh the benefits. 

I’m a huge advocate for green power, but believe the correct green solutions should be to the benefit of all - local and national - not at the cost of stunning wildlife, already hard hit communities and in this case threaten to disrupt the water supply of millions. 

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The precedent for protected lands across the country here is a terrible example - NY should lead in the protection of our country, not follow the reckless, destructive example set by the country’s leadership in the last four years. 

The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. 

Also of extreme concern is the economic impact - in a year when many have lost jobs, had earnings vastly reduced (as a small biz owner it has been brutal and the lack of support deeply depressing) putting further strain on the community is unacceptable. How can anyone justify the one bright light of recent years - growing tourism and investment.   

It also appears from my research that this project does not represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see.  How can we trust a company that would mislead in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Tomos Evans, 
412 Wynkoop Rd, 
Hurley, NY. 12443.


