

David Pillard, Shandaken, NY.
     As a resident of Shandaken and the owner of a business in Phoenicia I am writing to voice my strong opposition to granting a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings. I acknowledge and support the pursuit of renewable energy projects, but the Catskills is uniquely ill suited for the Premium Energy hydropower endeavor.
     Why is it "uniquely" ill suited?
     Premium Energy is proposing a project in the Catskills Forest Preserve - land under Article XIV of the NYS constitution that "shall be forever kept wild forest...shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private." Altering the land management for this project to move forward in the State Forest Preserve would require a state constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature then submission to the public in a referendum. Such amendments rarely pass.
     The Department of Energy's "Hydropower Vision" recommends that land with formal protection designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program be avoided for development. As a State Forest Preserve the Catskills do fall into the Status 1 land designation.
     The Esopus Creek, one of the East Coast's most vital trout waters, will be adversely affected by the increased turbidity of the project causing irreparable damage to trout breeding grounds. The pristine Esopus Creek network is fragile and will never recover from such a massive disturbance to its delicate ecology.
     And let's use common sense. Let's use our nation's economic resources sensibly to make good choices in developing renewable energy resources. Think of the millions of dollars that will need to be spent by the parties involved for this project to move forward:
     - the associated costs of amending the state constitution.
     - the review process expenses incurred by the New York State agencies 
       in assessing the project's negative environmental impact.
     - the litigation expenses New York City will incur in reviewing and 
       fighting this proposal since it will so grossly endanger its water 
       quality.
     Wouldn't all this money be better used for a project that is better suited to succeed and have solid prospects for coming to fruition? This is not an issue of "we don't want this project here." It's an issue of recognizing the disqualifying circumstances situating this project specifically in the Catskills  that make it prohibitive.

