

Susanna Nicholson, Shokan, NY.
This comment is written by a full time resident of the reservoir area on 3/31/21.  I’m Susanna Nicholson, at 170 Chase Rd. Shokan NY 12481.

Our area is a recreational jewel, an absolutely essential animal habitat.  Shokan also features a critical resource for the security and health of our state:  the Ashokan Reservoir, serving millions of NY State residents with clean, beautiful mountain water.

The assaults on natural habitat and water quality have never had more serious consequences than now, a time when water is truly an endangered resource nationwide.  Siting two powerhouses on the reservoir threatens our clean water, especially as the heat index already rises annually with climate change, and aquatic plant growth increases with CO2.  

Let’s pause here to remind ourselves that NY State has committed to renewable energy growth *with restrictions* as part of “Governor Cuomo’s Nation-Leading Climate Agenda”: “[projects will be] … responsibly permitted, bolster the state’s economy, and deliver health, environmental, and economic benefits to all New Yorkers.”  And I would like to draw your attention to one of the signal responsibilities of the Renewable Energy Siting Office:

“[to] achieve a net conservation benefit to any impacted endangered and threatened species.”

That is simply not possible with this project: the destruction of numerous woodland habitats through demolition and dams, the loss of recreational revenue and natural beauty, and the changing temperatures, pH, and soil content in important wetlands and estuaries downstream of the proposed dams and powerhouse.  The health and environmental aspects could not be worse.  If anyone imagines this enhances the quality of water arriving to NYC, I’d like to see the evidence.

Our future energy needs will be more efficiently met with other sources. I think we should wait to see what the Biden infrastructure plan offers our state in terms of federal funding for renewables such as solar and wind.  Our county has proven especially hospitable to solar projects, and those would be more consistent with existing land use patterns.

Also:

Why have we banned fracking in NY if we’re going to allow this Rube-Goldberg, comically-complex scheme of new reservoirs, dams, and powerhouses, privately run by out-of-state speculators?  

Given the complexity of this project, the environmental impact review process alone will run the state into the millions, or it will be shortchanged to expedite matters, with profound costs to the quality of life in Ulster and downstate counties.  There will be an extraordinary amount of litigation … all for an obviously inefficient project with catastrophic implications for NY State wildlife and forest.  

The required deforestation also seems ill-timed given our state’s priorities on climate change.

The Catskills are one of the things that make life in NY with its high taxes and demanding regulatory structures, really worthwhile for ALL of us.   Don’t ruin it.

