

Leslie Sharpe, Walton, NY.
proposal is shocking, outrageous and totally ill considered! And it shows NO knowledge, respect or concern for the Catskills and its people—and NYC. Clean, fresh water is the Catskills greatest resource. Which is why we have fought so hard against fracking—and won! Our tourist industry is dependent on that water, for fishing and so many other recreational activities. In addition, the Catskills has many family farms, and fresh water is crucial for livestock, cows, sheep and increasingly horses, and of course, it is also necessary for agriculture. The Catskills are America’s first great wilderness, lost in the 19th century to other irresponsible uses, such as the destruction of the hemlock forests by the tanning industry. Due to protections, such as codifying the Catskill Park as Forever Wild in NYS law (and how does this irresponsible proposal get around THAT?), the Catskills and its waters, which were thoroughly polluted by past egregiousness, have revived. Our streams and rivers offer some of the best fly fishing, as the trout, along with many mountain critters, such as the white-tailed deer and black bear, have returned with our reforested slopes and clean water.. Our waters also, and crucially,  supply drinking water to New York City, and the Ashokan Reservoir is the main reservoir whose sweet, clean waters flow to downstate. This project would put that water supply at risk!  And according to one article, the DEP, in addition to the Catskill towns concerned, was not even notified? And according to the same article, a Catskill town would be flooded for this? Absolutely not! That happened to too many villages to build the reservoirs. Catskillers, folks native to this area and the many downstaters now increasingly living here—and lots more have moved here due to the pandemic—simply won’t stand for this. This project would alter the hydrology of our local waters, the Esopus Creek, for starters, affect the quality of our water for recreational and drinking uses, both on a personal and commercial level, and also—and just as important—impact our wildlife, which has struggled and finally succeeded in making a comeback here. The Catskills, as anyone making such an irresponsible proposal, soon learns, are home to many committed, passionate and EFFECTIVE grass-roots environmental groups and individuals who will resist any such efforts that would result in compromising in any way our precious natural resources. My vote is a resounding NO!
Leslie T. Sharpe, author of The Quarry Fox and Other Critters of the Wild Catskills, was named one of Fifty Stewards of the Catskills by the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development in 2019.

