

George Kraemer, Shokan, NY.
My name is George Kraemer (52 Old Farm Road, Shokan, NY 12481), and I submit here my comments on the pumped storage hydro plant proposed for locations adjacent to the Ashokan Reservoir (FERC project number P-15056, sub-docket number P-15056:000).

I understand and applaud the commitment to transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources as a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.  However, the proposed pumped storage project has numerous negatives, based on location and environmental impact.  These negatives far outweigh the benefits gained by the project.  

Pumped storage reservoirs are environmentally detrimental.  The recently discovered phenomenon of methane emission from anoxic bottom sediments negates much of the switch from fossil fuel combustion to renewable sources.  Methane has ca. 25-times the potential for global warming of carbon dioxide. 

The Department of Energy’s Mission Innovation initiative has as its mission the research and development of clean energy.  Pumped storage is a net consumer of energy.  It is also relatively inefficient, requiring massive volumes of pumped water to store significant energy.  An environmentally better alternative is demand side management of electricity demand to reduce the need for pumped storage.  Pumped storage fails to be either innovative or clean.  

Ecologically, the rapid fluctuations of the water level in pumped storage prevent the development of a diverse, functional community.  Additionally, seasonal discharges of excess water from the proposed upper reservoir will seriously alter the hydraulics of the local creeks, incising stream beds and removing finer sediments and substrates, resulting in loss of biological integrity; the creeks will no longer be functioning parts of the biological landscape, but rather simply canals to release unneeded water.  These sediments will be transported into the Ashokan Reservoir, degrading the water quality of a major (40%) supplier of drinking water to New York City.  

New York State has long recognized the value of conserving wild lands, having the strongest “forever wild” clause of any state’s Constitution.  This 1894 clause directs that state-owned Catskill lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Whether New York State legislators of 125 years ago knew it or not, conservation of undisturbed wild land is key to the ecological integrity of the whole; many forest fragments do not add up to the same ecological entity as an intact forest.

Summarized succinctly, while the grid may need additional energy storage, and pumped storage is one means of achieving that, the proposed locations simply poor choices.


