

Nivo Rovedo, Lagrangeville, NY.
My comment is in regards to the project known to FERC by docket number P-15056, the Ashokan Reservoir pumped storage project. Premium Energy Holdings 
(PEH) has requested a permit from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study a pumped storage project on New York City’s Ashokan Reservoir. As a resident nearby the Catskill region,  I am against permitting this. My reason has to do with the location of this proposal and the significant adverse impacts it would have on water quality, the environment, and local Ulster County economy to name but a few effects. I am generally very much in favor of renewable energy storage projects, but this one is ill-conceived and can do incredible damage to the water supply of many towns, including New York City, and to the  environment.
  PEH requested the FERC permit without consulting with New York City (NYC); NYC’s Department of Environmental Protection had no prior knowledge of this proposal. This is crucially important because millions of people depend on the Ashokan Reservoir for drinking water, in New York City and many communities north of the city. We cannot afford to damage this precious, essential resource in any way! I feel that PEH, being a California based developer, is not familiar with how crucial and sensitive this body of water is to the region.
   As part of NYC’s water supply system, the Ashokan meets approximately forty percent of the City’s water needs, plus supplies water for some twenty communities as it travels south.  This water is currently unfiltered. The Ashokanis the oldest of NYC’s six Catskill water supply impoundments and the second largest.  But it is the only NYC Catskill reservoir that was constructed with two separate basins, an east and west basin.  The upper, or west basin, was constructed to serve as a settling basin allowing the periodic turbid reservoir inflows to settle out.  Since the reservoir’s construction in 1915, over one hundred years of sedimentation have settled in the west basin, where Premium Energy Holdings seeks to construct its pumped storage facility.The pumping and releasing of water from and into the Ashokan would potentially keep water turbid, thus negatively affecting its drinking quality, if not filtered.
   Additionally, the action of the pumped storage project would disrupt the reservoir’s thermocline. The Ashokan currently is a two-story reservoir that stratifies into a warm layer top and cold-water bottom during part of the year.  As such, it supports a healthy population of wild rainbow and brown trout.  Rainbow trout, which the Esopus Creek is best known for, are sight feeders that fed on zooplankton.  Zooplankton require clear water to thrive.  Thus, operation of a pumped storage project could create a constant turbid state, adversely impacting both zooplankton and the rainbow trout population.  And loss of the cold-water regime would further negatively impact the reservoir’s trout population. 
   For decades the Ashokan Reservoir-Esopus Creek connection of spawning rainbows and browns, running out of the reservoir, upstream into the Esopus to reproduce, has been much written about and heartily pursued.  In fact, the Esopus Creek wild trout fishery is dependent upon spawning trout from NYC’s Ashokan Reservoir.  Under a recently revised NYS Trout Management Plan the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) recognized the significance of the Esopus Creek trout fishery, classifying the river as Wild-Quality AND all its tributaries as Wild, that is to say, there is more than adequate spawning of wild trout to maintain these fisheries.  These are classifications very few NYS streams attain, and a recognition of the intrinsic value of these waters.If allowed to proceed, the proposed project would impact the watershed trout fishery: the Ashokan, Esopus, and tributaries where trout spawn.
   In addition, a major issue is that portions of the upper reservoirs would be constructed on NYS Forest Preserve lands; this would be a direct violation of the NYS Constitution.  While all of the aforementioned are environmental impacts, they are also economic impacts to Ulster County.  Much of the Ulster County economy is recreation based, with angling an important contributor.  Additionally, communities along the Esopus Creek, downstream of NYC’s Ashokan Reservoir have long since raised concerns about turbid discharges from the water supply.  These concerns can only be exacerbated if this project goes forward.
    Clearly this project is an ill-convinced idea by a west-coast based company with little knowledge, nor care, to impacts caused to the water quality, environment, economy, history, and general well-being of people living in the general area of this proposed endeavor.
     Please reject this permit request for all the reasons above.
    Thank you.
Nivo Rovedo


