

Brian Powers, Chichester, NY.
Kimberly D Bose
FERC
888 First ST,NE,Rm 1A
Washington, DC 20406

Dear Ms. Bose;

New York City’s Catskill Watershed is one of the great engineering feats of our modern world.  As the largest unfiltered water supply anywhere, it serves 9 million New Yorkers although with Long Island’s aquifer rapidly degrading and no alternative source available, the watershed will, within a few years, be serving 12-14 million of us.  So the effective operation of the this watershed is genuinely critical to most of the people of New York State. And while there are other ways and places to create and to buy the electricity we will need, there is only this single 5-county watershed where the economic center of these United States can get its drinking water.  40% of this water, sometimes up to 50%, moves through the Ashokan Reservoir. 

As the former publisher of the largest circulation newspapers in this watershed, The Phoenicia Times and The Olive Press, I have a long history of assessing the benefits and drawbacks of major developments proposed for our region.  In the 30-some years I’ve been analyzing such proposals, I have never seen a project so poorly conceived as Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. This proposal in my view, evidences a basic lack of comprehension of how the Catskill watershed and the Ashokan reservoir actually work, and of how such a project if actually built would impact both.  It also evidences a lack of understanding of how civic governance works in New York State, including the responsibilities of the US EPA in protecting this drinking water supply. 
 
The baseline issue that Premium’s proposal fails to account for is that the greatest problem the watershed faces and the largest impediment to maintaining water quality is the control of naturally-occurring sediment from the region’s red-clay soils.  Every time water moves in volume in this watershed, it moves with it an equally enormous volume of suspended solids. And the whole operational concept of Premium’s proposal is to move, both by pumping and by gravity- a total of 10 billion gallons a day into and out of the Ashokan reservoir.  That liquid would be the kind of slurry one would create by placing a handful of clay into a blender full of water, and then pouring the mixture back into the tub from which you’ve filled the blender. 

If such an impact were accomplished by an adversary against the most critical infrastructure of our nation’s largest metropolitan area, that would be generally viewed as an act of war; a terrorist act at the very least.  Given what we know about the public health impacts, the premise itself makes no sense.  And the capital cost alone just to build a filtration infrastructure required to mediate those impacts would be $12-20 billion.  So any notion that the public might benefit from this through nominally reduced electrical costs is clearly not true.  The capital and operating costs to mitigate the problem created would exceed any financial benefit from electrical generation by a factor of dozens or hundreds of times. 
    
But even contemplating such a project is a purely theoretical undertaking. Because even if FERC were to ultimately determine that ramping up the contamination of the State’s water supply would somehow serve the public interest, there are practical realities that would render such a decision moot.
   
The first of these is that absolutely no property rights required for the project are in any way obtainable.  The applicant has no legal right or ability to use the Ashokan reservoir or any City-owned lands for its stated or for any other purposes.  The second intrusion of reality is that by exacerbating turbidity problems and reducing water quality, the project would take the City of New York out of its compliance with its Filtration Avoidance Waiver, and compel it to bond and construct a mitigation project it cannot reasonably afford.  The City would never agree to this, and no court in the land would ever compel such a thing.  And so even if ultimately permitted by FERC, the project could never move forward to actual construction.  Third, the project as outlined requires extensive use of public landholdings, held by the State of New York.  The lands are held as a public trust under Article XIV of the State’s constitution, to be “forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or taken by any corporation, public or private.”  These lands of the Catskill Park have been so protected since 1885, and no one in State government has no intention of permitting their seizure by any authority for this or any other project.  That is why we have state and local governments and courts, and institutions entrusted with protecting the public interest. As for the potentially impacted lands and communities, the residents of this region are already speaking with a single voice in opposition to this project.  None of us are leaving our homes and lands to make this nightmare possible. 
  
In summary, I believe the applicant has demonstrated no likelihood and no ability whatsoever to receive the authorizations required to even prepare a license application for this project. Because the project cannot actually be constructed in any iteration of the real and shared world in which we live, I ask and urge you to deny the application for a preliminary permit. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Sincerely,

Brian Powers
30 Park Road, PO Box 52
Chichester, NY 12416 
 



