

Lindsay G Black, Olivebridge, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
 
Docket number P-15056-000
 
Dear Ms. Bose,

My name is Lindsay Black. I recently purchased my first home in Olivebridge in May of last year, and am deeply troubled at the prospect of the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. Our natural environments are important - sacred even, these days. Though the notion of hydroelectric power in and of itself creates a pathway toward the reduction of our dependency on fossil fuels, the cost to our constitutionally protected natural habitat is grossly antithetical to the preservation of our environment. We are in the midst of a pandemic still, and the continued loss of natural habitat, further upsets precious ecosystems, whose inherent  diversity is key to our planet’s ability to regulate itself. And we, the people who live and work here, do so in symbiosis with the natural environment, as local economies are built upon visitor traffic who come to hike, boat, eat, fish, ski, vacation, and marry here. Potential relocation of families from their homes via eminent domain would tear apart communities, and add to the housing crisis that already exists in Ulster County, a crisis that has worsened with the pandemic as the cost of real estate has surged upward. 

I am in deep disagreement that this is a way forward regarding our country’s transition to green, renewable energy. The scale of ecological disruption, of community disruption, is disturbing. I am further distrubed by Premium Energy’s verbiage of this project being closed loop. I cannot imagine how that is possible given the vital tributaries that interconnect with the Ashokan, which would have rippling effects on the Esopus. None of this is for the benefit of those who will bear the brunt of this dam’s effects. Its creation is to provide a type of energy insurance for consumers, which ultimately only benefits the pockets of  Premium Energy. True green and renewable energy wouldn’t seek to harm protected environments. It would seek to reimagine our energy consumption and how that energy is produced, not just create a backup for the way we currently consume it. 

With conviction and heart, I sincerely plead with you to deny the preliminary permit proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely, 
Lindsay G Black  


