

Daniel Greenbaum, Maplewood, NJ.
Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing to urge FERC to not grant a preliminary permit to Premium Energy's proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, FERC Project No. 15056-000.
I am a homeowner in Chichester, NY in Ulster County for over 25 years and have been coming to this part of the Catskills for over 60 years.
The project will be located within New York State's Catskill State Park and will encroach on New York State Forest Preserve within that Park. The Preserve is protected by the New York State Constitution. The State Constitution declares that Forest Preserve lands will be kept "forever wild," and that they can only be developed by an amendment to the State Constitution followed by a public referendum.
Many endangered species of plants and animal, designated as such by New York State but some also recognized by the Federal Government, will be impacted if not destroyed by allowing this project to proceed in any of its proposed locations within the Forest Preserve. 
Because the proposal places this project on State Forest Preserve land, allowing the proposal to proceed would be contrary to the Department of Energy's "Hydropower Vision" that acknowledges avoiding such projects where development could destroy publicly protected wilderness and endangered species. 
The construction of the project itself will negatively impact residents not only of Ulster and Greene Counties, but also residents of New York City who rely for their water supply on the streams like Stony Clove Creek or Woodland Valley Creek that flow into the Ashokan Reservoir. 
Finally, I am given to understand that the proposal claims to be for a "closed-loop" pumped storage project but is in fact an "add-on" that uses an existing body of water as a reservoir. The latter type of project has far greater environmental impact than the former and is not the type of project that the Department of Energy is encouraging.
FERC should deny the requested preliminary permit for Project No. 15056-000. 
Thank you,
Daniel Greenbaum 


