

Maret Panzenbeck, Windham, NY.
I am writing this comment in response to docket P-15056. 

I am a resident of  Ashland, NY and have enjoyed the beauty of New York State's Catskill Park since my father and I hiked here when I was a boy sixty years ago.

I strongly request that FERC deny a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings, LLC for the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.  

The proposed project is an “open loop system” and thus not kind of innovation the Department of Energy is looking for. The proposed system will not create new energy but rather require a net energy expenditure, i.e. more energy will be required to operate the system than the system will produce.  As an open loop system the project will interfere with New York City water supply at the Ashokan reservoir. 

The proposed project will require extensive construction and disruption to areas within the New York State Catskill Park, an area that is protected by the NYS constitution.  The proposed project will likely require an amendment to the NYS constitution. Further, the proposed sites in the Catskills are on Status 1 land.  The Department of Energy has said that Status 1 or 2 must be avoided for development.  

The three proposed areas for the “upper reservoir” are all areas used for access to hiking trailheads used by thousands of state resident and out of state tourist who come to the Catskill area yearly because of the natural beauty and challenging hiking trails.  Also, these areas have immense historical value on a national scale.

The project proposed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC is extremely ill-conceived for the reasons stated above. In my opinion it is akin to proposing such a project in the middle of Yosemite National Park, perhaps something this California company can understand.  In my wildest dreams I have never imagined having to defend the heart of  NY's Catskill Park against a proposal of this nature.  It is unthinkable and will be widely opposed by the residents of NYS.  In my opinion the public outcry will likely be massive.  Although I understand the need for clean energy sources and fully support the goals of  FERC this project clearly is not of the type sought by the DOE.  I therefore respectfully ask that FERC deny Premium Energy Holdings this permit.

