

Michael Ottavi, Chichester, NY.
To:

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

While there’s no doubt that pumped storage and other new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of the Catskills must not be sacrificed in the process. 

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created 135 years ago. The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly fragmented environment. According to the New York State Forest Condition Index, the forest surrounding each of the three sites proposed by Premium Energy for an upper reservoir ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide. In addition, all the proposed reservoirs fall within what the Audubon Society has designated as the Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area.

Article XIV of the NYS Constitution states the Catskills “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” It is required by law that any change to this land provision requires an amendment to the state Constitution, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.

Furthermore, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal
protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program should be avoided for development.”

Transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental devastation. Premium Energy should select a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project, NOT this incredibly important natural wilderness. The Catskills Forest Preserve must remain protected.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Michael Ottavi

104 Schweitzer Road
Chichester, NY 12416
(917) 533-1196



