

Michael Drillinger, Woodstock, NY.
I am a resident of Ulster County, NY. I am also a New York State Outdoor Guide and I regularly guide visitors on the protected land around the Ashokan Reservoir, including lands near the dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels proposed by Premium Energy Holdings for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity.  I do recognize the value and importance of pumped storage facilities, but this proposal is the wrong project for the given locations.

The Boiceville location would flood a major access point to two popular wilderness mountains. The Stony Clove location impacts access to the Phoenicia and Mount Tobias Wilderness Area. The Woodland Valley site similarly encroaches on Catskill Park Forever Wild areas. Tourism and recreation are major industries in the Catskills where agriculture has always been marginal and there are few other industries.

The current proposed sites would impinge upon lands of the Catskill Wild Forest which are lands protected under the New York State Constitution. In addition, the construction work would be in the watershed of the New York City water supply, an unfiltered supply of fresh water that supports 11 million people. There is a danger that a construction accident could lead to toxic or dangerous materials finding their way into the reservoir. At the very least, there is a danger that runoff from the construction of the upper reservoirs would cause turbidity that will impact local streams as well as the Ashokan Reservoir.

The finished operation proposes to outflow into the Ashokan Reservoir which will create turbidity and change the water temperature which affects the water’s chemistry. How can this project be allowed to go forward when it impacts constitutionally protected lands, and more importantly, the water supply of New York City?

The Stony Clove site would certainly impact the Stony Clove Creek, which is a major tributary of the Esopus Creek. As described above, there is danger during the construction process as well as in the proposed operation. There is recreational tubing, kayaking, and fishing on the Esopus that all support the local economy. Any degradation or alteration in the flow of the Esopus will impact businesses that depend on these recreational activities, but also, the Esopus is the major water supply of the Ashokan Reservoir. Increased turbidity due to the functions of the proposed reservoir in the Stony Clove will have a negative effect on the New York City water supply.

The issue of turbidity and possible toxic runoff from the construction site as well as on going issues of turbidity will have a direct impact on the local environment and stream ecology. Catskill streams are blessed with a wide variety and a healthy population of macro invertebrates. These form the base of a food web that supports fish, birds, and larger predators. Any threat to stream ecology due to dangerous runoff or turbidity has wider ripples that affect the general health of the local environment.

As a licensed guide I know that the Catskills are a destination for visitors from around the world for hiking, fly fishing, cycling, and other recreational activities. These underlie the tourism industry which is the life blood of the communities in the Catskills.  A 2016 report “The Economic Impact of Tourism in New York” states that tourism is responsible for 16% of the total employment in the Catskills and tourist spending continues to grow year over year. The Premium Energy Holdings proposed pump storage project for the Ashokan Reservoir will have a direct negative impact on my guiding business as well as tourism in general and the local environment.


