

John Buckler Seiberling, Washington, DC.
                                                                
           
                                                               April 10, 2021


To:								                             
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000.

Dear Ms. Bose:

Regarding the proposal of Premium Energy Holding LLC (Premium Energy) to
build a hydroelectric power plant in Ulster County, New York, I am writing
to advocate the denial, by FERC, of Premium Energy’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

As one with family ties to the Catskill Forest Preserve region and who has enjoyed the Preserve’s natural lands in repeated visits to the area over the years, I have taken assurance in this unique area’s protected status under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, which provides that the Preserve lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands” and that they “shall not be leased, sold, or exchanged or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  It is exactly because the unviolated natural condition of these lands was and is deemed sacrosanct that to compromise it the state has required a constitutional amendment.   

The 700,000 acres of the Preserve make up a continuous wildlife habitat of a size that is becoming increasingly rare in New York State as the state’s forests become more and more fragmented.  Because of the unique support to biodiversity afforded, critically, by the scale of the unbroken forest, the lands within the preserve are ranked within the top one percent of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index.  Native animals ranging from black bears to scarlet tanagers require such extensive unbroken forest for their species to remain viable in the area. The impinging on the perimeter of the Preserve by the construction of an upper reservoir would amount to the very erosion of the Preserve’s integrity that the Article XIV language was written to deter.

I would further emphasize that as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.”  According to the Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”

I urge that the Commission respect both the intent of the creators of the Catskill Forest Preserve and existing Federal policy and deny Premium Energy’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely yours,
John Buckler Seiberling



