

Philip Mouquinho, West Shokan, NY.
P-15056-000

Philip Mouquinho
74 Butternut Knolls
West Shokan NY 12494
845 657 3337 home
917 439 2383 cell

Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing this comment in regard to the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. I find no more ridiculous idea than to place this inefficient and criminally negligent idea in the heart of a most bucolic and peaceful wildlife setting in the Catskills. To begin with they plan to generate 2.8 Kw of power and use 2.0 Kw (71%) of the production to run the pumps and the facilities in the support buildings with the remaining 20% going to Ulster Township. Where is the fairness in this when those of us who live in West Shokan and the other towns and hamlets around the reservoir have to bare the burden and put up with the new congestion, vibration, dust, noise and impacts on our immediate environment.  I ran away from Lower Manhattan 25 years ago and have been living right next door to the reservoir and now the insanity of constructing this hair brained project has followed me up here.
As it stands now route 28 A is one of the most neglected road surfaces in the area and with this new construction, we will be inundated with a parade of heavy construction vehicles and traffic from workers and material deliveries not to mention the rumbling noise and deterioration of the peace and tranquility that makes this area so special.
I served on Community Board 2 in Manhattan and Chaired the Zoning Committee as well as other committees such as sidewalks and public accesses, Traffic and know when there is something afoul with an idea such as this. The fix is in and we must stop it before it gains momentum. The Politicians will say there is plenty of time for alternatives and nothing Is set in concrete and create committees and stall until one day we wake up and the area is cleared and the excavators and cement trucks start arriving and then they say “well we tried and put up a good fight but we can’t stop progress” ! I have seen this too many times in my day.
Sincerely,

Philip Mouquinho




