

Brian P Hehir, OLIVEBRIDGE, NY.
Dear Sir or Madam

I write to object to docket P-15056-00 - Application for Preliminary Permit for Document of Premium Energy Holdings, LLC Ashokan PSP under P-15056 filed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC of California who are applying for an initial permit for an open-loop pumped-storage hydropower plant to be built within the NY State Catskills Forest Preserve.

As a resident of The Catskills and keen supporter of renewable sustainable energy, clean water and the environment, I find this application to file for a permit to begin the process of creating an open-loop pumped-storage hydropower plant within the Catskills Forest Preserve highly speculative, legally troubling and fraught with both litigative and technical problems. 

It is a difficult position to be in to support sustainable power but object to a potentially 'clean' power plant but this plan is thoroughly unconscionable and rather than simply file a 'not in my backyard' objection I found that this application has issues under at least three critical criteria even before one considers the environmental impact on the protected wildlife and the natural beauty of the area or the disruption and destruction this project could have on the economy of the area and the revenue it generates for the local community, county and state. 

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885 under article XIV of the New York state constitution to be "forever kept as wild forest lands.. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private." As the watershed source for New York City's water supply, and an area of outstanding natural beauty The Catskills Forest Preserve is enshrined within the NY State constitution and I am sure that Federal eminent domain was never intended to over reach into such an area of land that is protected by a state within its own constitution. Such an action would trigger litigation more vociferous, highly charged and financially supported throughout the union than even PennEast Pipeline vs New Jersey. The resulting litigation that would result from allowing this plan to move forward would run for many, many years leaving our need for sustainable power unmet, while bringing all involved open to contributing litigation that could only possibly be resolved by appeal to the highest court in the land at significant financial cost for all involved. See https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/19/19-1039/175183/20210407141230704_19-1039_Brief.pdf

In addition to the very questionable and troubling legal grounds on which the permit might be granted this plan falls short of and contradicts the Department of Energy's own Hydropower Vision. The Catskills Forest Preserve location is designated as a status 1 location by the Department of Energy's Hydropower Vision "Gap Analysis Program", accordingly “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

This open loop project application has issue on its technical foundation as pertains to the Department of Energy's own guidelines. For such a permit to be granted, FERC would need to ignore the Department of Energy's guidelines which clearly preclude such a project moving forward, in addition the technical nature of the project itself does not appear to meet the preferred method for pumped hydro as a closed loop system where this is clearly an open-loop pumped-storage hydropower plant, despite the application rather deceptively attempting to portray it otherwise. 

If this application was to be allowed to move forward it would be the first project that would extend Federal eminent domain in to a State's constitution while simultaneously contradicting Department of Energy guidelines for both plant location due to the Catskills Forest Preserve designation as a Status 1 protected environment and technical implementation preference for closed loop over open loop.

On legal, location and technical grounds alone this project should not be allowed to move forward.

Thank you for your time and I hope you reach the right decision in this case.





