

Elise Lark, Olivebridge, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Re: Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to oppose the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains, due to its expected deleterious impact on the pristine Catskill Forest Preserve, consisting of 700,000 acres of increasingly rare continuous wildlife habitat, and on the Ashokan Reservoir, which provides the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

Firstly, the proposal would be in violation of the NYS Constitution (Article XIV), which guarantees that government protected lands, such as the Catskill Forest Preserve, “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” While pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, we need to proceed conscientiously, applying an ethos of DO NO HARM (to the greatest degree possible). We cannot afford to rob Peter to pay Paul (harm the environment in the interest of preserving/protecting our environment) by irresponsibly and illegally wreaking havoc on a rare, protected habitat, with devastating consequences. For FERC to allow the proposed project to proceed would be condoning a crime as well as establishing a doomed precedent for legally protected lands across the country.

Furthermore, the destructive consequences of pumped storage would be expected to continue well after construction, due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries, propelling a damaging cascading effect on the nearby stream ecology, both water and land habitats, and its wildlife. Premium Energy’s proposal falsely claims it is a closed-loop system; rather it is an “add-on,” and the resulting water fluctuations would undoubtedly increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Eventually, the Pumped Storage Project could be expected to disrupt the sediment regime of the Esopus Creek, thus having both wildlife and human impact, compromising trout-breeding and NYC’s source of clean drinking water.

In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to the residents of local communities, resulting in a resurgence of displacement that began with the construction of the Ashokan Reservoir a century  ago. This would result in enormous hardship due to the current housing climate in Ulster County; a shortage of housing has causing prices to skyrocket. 

Premium Energy’s proposed project would also negatively affect the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, and thus employment, by limiting access to recreation, and diminishing the area’s natural beauty, that which makes it a desirable destination. It would also impact tourism beyond Ulster County, by cutting off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville. Loss of jobs and housing could result in people leaving the region, especially those with less socioeconomic resources and opportunities.

Lastly, while green innovation is a necessity for our planet, its habitats and inhabitants, and for our children’s and grandchildren’s future, Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, fails to represent the kind of innovation encouraged by the Department of Energy and communities (i.e., closed-loop pumped storage projects, which have a smaller environmental impact than those making use of existing watersheds). Premium’s false claim that its project is “closed-loop” only breeds distrust and despondency. 

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Elise Lark


