

Philip Pardi, Phoenicia, NY.
10 April, 2021 								
Phoenicia, NY

re. the FERC project # P-15056

Dear Members of the FERC,

I’m writing to express my strong opposition to the plans to build a hydro-electric dam in the Catskills. Although my own house will likely not be directly affected, I am horrified that such a plan has even been articulated. It’s the kind of idea I’m tempted to laugh off, but the prospect is just too disheartening to ignore. I could write pages, but for now, I’ll say just this.

The proposal to build a dam in Woodland Valley (which is just down the road from where my wife and I have lived full-time for twenty-five years) would destroy one of the most cherished parts of the Catskills. If you haven’t been here, please come—I’d love to show you around. Woodland Valley attracts countless walkers, runners, bikers, birdwatchers, campers, hikers, hunters, fishers, to say nothing of the many folks who actually own homes there. The impact is far and away greater than any benefit I’ve seen listed. 

Furthermore, to remove all those homes and eliminate the woods that attract so many visitors would essentially destroy the town of Phoenicia. Like so many upstate towns, it relies on a mixture of year-round residents, weekend/summer residents, and tourists. I have lived here for over two decades and seen many businesses come and go. It’s tough. Friends who own local B&B’s and antique stores are often on the brink—a string of rainy weekends in July and August is about as much as they can withstand. Take away the thousands of residents and visitors—to say nothing of the tax base that supports the town more generally—and the results will be painful to many, many people. 

In addition, as far as I can tell, such a project is illegal. These lands are supposedly “forever wild.” A quick Google search yields this from the New York State Constitution: the Catskills “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” My understanding is that the only way to revise this clause would be via an amendment to the Constitution. 

A century ago, a dam and reservoir were built in nearby Ashokan, and in the process, a handful of towns were dismantled and/or moved. All these many years later, that loss—and the loss of tax payers—continues to poison local politics. (It flared up not long ago in the local school board elections, and it will doubtless return.) Decisions like the one before you now have an outsized effect on residents today and those of the future. I hope that fact will give you pause. Certainly, for those of us who live here, have raised families here (our son went to Onteora schools K through 12), and plan to retire here, that history is not one we will allow to be repeated. 

I teach across the river, and each day, driving home, I cross the Rhinecliffe-Kingston Bridge. I’d like to show you that view, too: the entire Catskills are spread before you, including Overlook Mountain in the foreground, Indian Head and others off to the north, and what I like to call the Shandaken mountains in the distance to the south. Often, depending on the season, the sun is sinking or setting. If I work late or if it is winter, I might catch a stunning sunset. I’ve been driving across that bridge for eighteen years, and I never tire of the view, never tire of feeling a thrill as I return to these mountains. They are worth cherishing and protecting. I hope you will join us in turning aside this proposal.

Sincerely,

Philip Pardi
131 Muddy Brook Road
(845) 688-2824


