

Kathleen Marschall, Hillsborough, NJ.
FERC project number, P-15056

As a part time resident of Woodland Valley since 1973, I am writing to oppose the preliminary permit application by Premium Energy to build a pumped storage hydro plant in the Catskill Forest Preserve in New York.

I understand that New York’s Clean Energy Standard passed in 2015 means NY aims to achieve 70% renewable power by 2030. This objective is driving the need for innovative methods of energy storage, however, the Catskill Forest Preserve is not the appropriate site for pumped storage hydro-electricity generation.

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885 and is protected under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution:  the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Furthermore, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” It appears that Premium Energy is unaware of this status.

While hydropower reduces greenhouse gases from fossil fuels, reservoirs themselves produce methane, a particularly harmful greenhouse gas, which begs the question: Does pumped hydro storage benefit the environment, the ultimate goal of the Clean Energy Standard? The Premium Energy proposal is not the kind of innovation the Department of Energy is seeking. 

In all of the three areas proposed for the reservoir construction, the ecological impacts would be severe. Valuable trout breeding habitat would be lost. All three are within Audubon’s Catskills Peaks Important Bird Areas. All are habitats for some plant, bird, bat and snake species on NY’s “threatened”, “special concern”, or “greatest conservation need” lists including the bog orchid, northern long-eared bat, scarlet tanager, wood thrush, black-throated blue warbler, and three hawk species. It creates rapid fluctuations of water in the upper reservoir which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. These lands are protected for these very reasons!

I adamantly object to the proposal and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny Premium Energy’s application for a preliminary permit.


Kathleen M. Marschall


