

Teresa Falkowski, PHOENICIA, NY.
Teresa Falkowski
6 Woodland Clove Rd.
Phoenicia, NY. 12464

To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426
.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,
	I have many concerns regarding the proposed project. One is the wildlife and impact on our preserved lands in the Catskills. A project of this proportion would take years to complete and a ton of construction. It would be detrimental to the wildlife, the town and the neighborhood if there are any homes left in it. Being a resident of woodland valley I can tell you first hand there are bears, deer and many more that would feel the effects of a big construction project. They are in our yards thriving on vegetation and make regular trips down to the stream to drink. This would displace many and disrupt many who hibernate and use the valley as a home. 
The town of Shandaken that thrives on tourism of nature lovers would be hit the hardest. They come here to hike, fish, camp, swim and tube the esopus and this would kill all the enjoyment these people seek and end up putting the local businesses that rely on this to stay afloat in the red and eventually close. The entire town would end up suffering severe effects of this. Considering the neighborhood of woodland valley contributes significantly to the tax roll in Shandaken and this Clean energy company that wants to take over is going to be getting tax breaks. It will put a much bigger tax burden on the businesses that will already be hurting from lack of income. 
If Shandaken and woodland valley isn't big enough for the politicians to care about, don't forget whose water supply will be used to create this energy. Are we really willing to put NYC's main water supply at risk? Just to make some energy which the plant uses a third of to operate. The water will be murky and turned up constantly from the constant pumping and heavy flows. Have you ever seen the stream after a heavy rain? It's not pretty! Also the more water is flowing in some areas the more chances of contamination and pollution. I just don't think this is worth the risk of unknown impacts to the lands, wild life, NYC water supply and the town as a whole. I respect trying to create clean energy, but these are the real costs of this project.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit
for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Teresa Falkowski


