

E Hamilton Appelson, Mount Tremper, NY.
I became a resident of Mt. Tremper nearly 30 years ago, and these mountains have become home to my family, my business, and all that is dear to me.  After years of coming to know this place, I now spend my days as a guide, introducing visitors to the Ashokan watershed region. I take this role seriously, believing it’s critical for people from urban areas to clearly understand the remarkable environmental treasure that the Catskill Mountains represents.  I learned of this proposal with alarm, just 3 short weeks before the period for comments is closes, and though my time is short, I feel a responsibility to make my position known. 

This region’s development has long been strictly curtailed by both the regulations of the Catskill Forest Preserve, the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation, and the NYC Department of Environmental Protection.  The message I aim to send home in all of my encounters with visitors is that while the region’s residents have historically paid a high price (economically and socially) for the multiple layers of environmental protection in force here, we have the great satisfaction and security of knowing that we live in a place that will remain clean and safe for flora and fauna (AND WATER) in perpetuity.   

The Catskill Forest Preserve is written into the New York State Constitution, and cannot be altered except by constitutional amendment.  It would be an outrageous overstepping of boundaries for FERC to approve this proposal, as it would effectively over-rule the New York State Constitution, New York Regional Department of Environmental Conservation regulations, Ulster County regulations, Town of Shandaken regulations, Town of Olive regulations, Hamlet of Olivebridge regulations, Hamlet of Chichester regulations, Hamlet of Lanesville regulations, Hamlet of Phoenicia regulations, and the New York City Department of Environmental Protection laws and regulations.

Running roughshod over the law of the land in order to permit a private company that hasn’t done its homework and has presented a shoddy application would be bad public policy.  Allowing this project to actually get built would fly in the face of every level of governmental oversight of our environment.   Overruling environmental protections in the name of supposed clean energy is a race to the bottom.  Let's stop this in its tracks and build smarter.

Please say no to docket number P-15056.


--
Liz Appelson
123 Miller Road #3
Mt. Tremper, NY 12457


