

Adam Doan, Highland, NY.
As the organizations who deliver a stream management program in the
Ashokan Reservoir watershed, Cornell Cooperative Extension of Ulster
County and the Ulster County Soil and Water Conservation District are
offering these comments on the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056)
proposed by Premium Energy and submitted for a Preliminary Permit
application to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Our organizations see the following potential concerns related to the project
based in our understanding of stream science:
- The alternative sites for an upper reservoir will dam streams that carry
high loads of coarse sediment (bed load) through steep mountain
valleys. As proposed, the upper reservoir dam will interrupt 100% of
the coarse sediment supply.
- Bed load is needed to re-form stream riffles and other channel
stabilizing features downstream of the reservoir dam. Stream riffles
and other natural channel features armor stream beds against erosion.
Streams located downstream of newly constructed dams are highly
likely to become unstable and erode downward and laterally following
dam construction during a period of adjustment.
- This adjustment period or channel evolution is critical to the stream
returning to an equilibrium state following the disruption to hydrology
and sediment supply caused by dam construction and would likely
occur over a period of decades.
- In addition to downward adjustment of channels, a reduction in stream
flow downstream of a dam can lead to sediment accumulation in the
channel bed triggering stream bank erosion. In accordance with
modern understandings of stream physics confirmed through scientific
study, it can be expected that streams below a newly constructed dam
will undergo erosion and adjustment before a new channel
configuration achieves hydraulic stability (Williams and Wolman, 1984;
Church, 1995; Grant, 2003).
- The Ashokan Watershed’s geology is such that coarse bed load
transported by streams is frequently deposited over relatively deep
deposits of clay sediments that historically formed under glacial lakes.
Channels starved of bed load below a dam would likely erode into
glacial lake clays and substantially increase fine sediment loading to
downstream water bodies, including the Esopus Creek and Ashokan
Reservoir.
- Adjustments to the channel bed and stream bank erosion raise the
following concerns:
1. Banks in this watershed include large hillslopes that are layered
with the glacial lake clays that threaten water quality.
2. Extensive bank erosion could undermine existing public culverts
and bridges located on affected streams.
3. Public roads by necessity are located near or adjacent to streams
in steep mountain valleys and could be undermined.
4. In this heavily forested watershed, bank erosion would likely
increase the supply of large wood to channels, further
contributing to channel instability and threatening public
infrastructure.
5. Private septic systems, buildings, and stream crossings could
similarly be undermined.
- The Upper Esopus Creek and minor tributaries between the Ashokan
Reservoir and Allaben are included on the NYS Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters. Water supply and recreational uses are impaired by
silt/sediment. Streambank erosion is the primary source of
silt/sediment, along with a diversion from the Schoharie Reservoir. The
confluences of Woodland Creek and Stony Clove are located within the
portion of Upper Esopus Creek impaired by high levels of turbidity.
Streambank and bed erosion below any upland reservoir could further
contribute to water quality impairment of the Upper Esopus Creek.
- The primary drinking water supply impaired by Upper Esopus Creek
turbidity is the Ashokan Reservoir, which provides approximately 40%
of the drinking water supply to about 9 million New York state
residents.
- Based on observations of similar pumped storage projects in the
region and nationally, the rapid filling and drawdown of the upland
reservoir could result in almost complete loss of native riparian plant
and animal communities bordering the upland reservoir and along
streams for some distance upstream of the reservoir.
- Riparian plant communities that resist bank erosion and provide
unique and valuable wildlife habitat, could be threatened downstream
of the reservoir by extreme changes in the hydrologic regime and
erosion processes as described above.
- The installation of transmission lines could further degrade riparian
areas throughout the watershed.

Since the early 2000s, we have co-delivered the Ashokan Watershed Stream
Management Program (AWSMP) in the 255-square mile Ashokan Reservoir
watershed. The AWSMP has assessed streams and published stream
management plans for the Esopus Creek and most of its major tributaries.
We have assessed conditions in all of the streams proposed for upland
reservoirs by Premium Energy. We are monitoring bank erosion in all
streams affected by this proposal.

Our program focus is on managing and restoring geomorphic channel
stability, sediment transport, riparian cover, aquatic habitat, and floodplain
access. The AWSMP works to restore ecological function to streams by
implementing restoration projects and riparian plantings. We provide
education, funding, and technical support to local communities for applying
stream best management practices to their projects.

Since 2001, the AWSMP has fully assessed over 15 tributaries to the Esopus
Creek and Bush Kill streams and restored geomorphic function to over 2
miles of stream and stabilized over 1.5 acres of hillslope. We have
completed over $2.1 million in projects to restore Woodland Creek and over
$6.1 million to restore the Stony Clove Creek. These projects stabilized large
sections of eroding stream banks and channels, hydrologically reconnected
floodplains, and revegetated riparian areas with Catskill native species. 

For more information please reach out to Adam Doan, UCSWCD and Leslie Zucker, Cornell Cooperative Ext. Ulster Co.

