

Sondra Wolferman, Albrightsville, PA.
The Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage Proposal calls for the construction of three additional dams in an area of ecologically valuable land in the Indian Head Wilderness and Wittenberg Wild Forest areas, north and west of the existing Ashokan Reservoir in the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Dams and reservoirs fragment aquatic ecosystems in the same way that roads and utility lines fragment forest ecosystems, often with disastrous results for the native flora and fauna in and around these facilities. Dams, reservoirs, and the operation of hydroelectric generators can change natural water temperatures, water chemistry, river flow characteristics, and silt loads, and obstruct fish passage. 

Surveys of the hydropower industry and its regulators have  found that the two biggest environmental issues facing hydropower plants in the U.S. are obstruction of fish passage and water quality degradation. Hydroelectric power plants can interfere with the movements of riverine fish in three general ways: (1) water velocities within the reservoir or flows released from the dam may be too low to allow migration; (2) the dam may create a barrier to upstream movements; and (3) resident or downstream-migrating fish may be drawn into the intake flows (entrainment) and suffer injury or mortality on passing through the turbine. The reduction in fish populations caused in part by migration barriers has caused some fish stocks to be declared in danger of extinction. (U.S. Energy Information Administration. Hydropower and the environment - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 

The Catskill Preserve is a world-class hiking, fishing, and outdoor recreation destination known globally for its extraordinary natural beauty, biological diversity, and historical features. Visitors come here from all over the world to experience one of the last unspoiled wilderness areas in the heavily industrialized eastern United States. 

While hydropower does not directly emit air pollutants, the manufacture of concrete and steel hydropower dams requires equipment that runs on fossil fuels, thereby adding to the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. In addition, greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane form in natural aquatic systems and in human-made water storage reservoirs as a result of the aerobic and anaerobic decomposition of biomass in the water. 

When these emissions are factored into the equation, along with the damage to aquatic ecosystems, it seems highly unlikely that the public benefit of a pumped storage facility in the Catskill Preserve outweighs the negative impacts to the environment and to local economies that rely on good water quality for survival.




 


