

Tatiana Alexa, Chichester, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose 
Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE, Room 1A, Washington, DC 20426

This letter is in opposition of the above named Application for Preliminary Permit submitted by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC.

The Catskills Forest Park is a jam, that was preserved by our predecessors for the generations to come. With its proximity to New York City, it is a beloved spot for recreational activity and weekend breaks not only by local community, but mainly by millions of New Yorkers.  Ruining it by a construction of a such scale will be a true crime, and cause a permanent damage. Premium Energy Holdings purposefully hides the fact that all three proposed locations are at the center of the Catskills Forest Preserve, established in 1885. Its status is preserved by Article XIV of the New York State Constitution. It is also very telling that none of us nor our elected representatives were notified by Premium Energy Holdings of its intentions and plans. 

What also concerns me that the request submitted by Premium Energy Holdings is highly misleading. While stating that the request is for a "closed loop", the review of the request clearly shows that it is not. 

It must be also stated, that currently there is no known machinery used for pumping, generating and/or transmitting energy, which COE would be greater than 95%. Therefore, cumulatively during energy generating cycle a MINIMUM of 10% -20% of energy will be lost in the proposed pumped power plant solution. It is at most importance to note that such lost electrical energy is originally drawn from a common grid and supplied there by non-renewable and non-green methods. 
In other words, tons of coal or oil must be burned in order to operate proposed so-called ‘renewable energy power plant’. Not mentioning here are other losses, such as hydraulic energy loss, e.g., which also contributes and increases the total energy loss in such pumped storage solutions. While using the term ‘renewable energy’ the proposed solution inefficiently uses non-renewable, ‘dirty’ energy from the grid thus directly contributing to the global warming.

I'm urging the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny Premium Energy Holdings, LLC request for a preliminary permit to study the feasibility of a pumped-storage hydropower facility connected to Ashokan Reservoir.

Best regards,
Tatiana Alexa
199 Stony Clove Lane
Chichester
New York
12416



