

Hartley Walker Money, Poughkeepsie, NY.
While renewable energy is incredibly valuable in the fight against climate change, the impact of renewable energy, such as hydropower, must be assessed critically. Acknowledging the tradeoffs of ‘clean’ energy is important in moving forward towards decarbonizing our energy sector and the world at large. Large-scale energy projects have the potential to displace people, wildlife and reshape the hydrological and natural systems of the region.  

Premium Energy’s project proposal is not fit for FERC approval due to Premium Energy Holding’s preliminary permit application/proposal not meeting the Department of Energy’s expectations of closed-loop pumped storage hydropower expansion. Additionally, Premium’s proposal and is lacking in a comprehensive understanding of the potential impacts of pumped storage hydropower in the Ashokan watershed and surrounding Catskill region.  

Premium Energy claims in their project proposal that the PSH system at Ashokan Reservoir would be a closed-loop system, which is incorrect and misleading. Because of Esopus Creel feeding and draining Ashokan Reservoir, any hydro project within this watershed would be considered open-loop. Open–loop pumped storage will threaten the Esopus Creek and its cherished wild rainbow trout population of which has been recently recognized by the NYS DEC. The recent designation of Esopus Creek as a “Wild” fishery is a testament to the quality of this ecosystem. The Esopus Creek is fed by the surrounding watershed located in the Catskills which have been protected for over a century and helps support a tourism-based economy in the region. Tampering with this watershed means tampering with an already sensitive economy.  

The Catskills are some of the most pristine forests in the northeast and deserve considerable attention and care. Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, states that lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private” which suggests that Premium Energy and their proposed PSH has no place in the Catskills. 

The creation of an upper reservoir as a holding tank for pumped storage would inevitably displace people, reroute road infrastructure and disturb the ecosystems of the Ashokan Watershed. Rapid fluctuations of water levels in both upper and lower reservoirs due to power production during peak demand has implications on the water quality for downstate residents in New York City. 40% of NYC’s water supply is sourced from the Ashokan and Schoharie Reservoirs, which means that any dramatic landscape changes in development could put NYC’s water supply at risk. 

Renewable energy is essential in an efficient energy transition away from fossil fuels, but the implications of hydropower are worth critical consideration. Pumped storage hydropower has a place in our energy sector, but it has no home in the Catskills.  

In conclusion, I write to you to comment in my opposition to Premium Energy Holding’s pumped storage hydropower proposal for Ashokan Reservoir. It would be a shame to see the people of the Catskills have to spend years fighting Premium Energy. This project needs to be halted in its tracks before traction is made.  Allowing Premium Energy to conduct feasibility studies on PSH would be inviting the infringement and degradation of highly preserved lands with deep historical ties to conservation and management. This project has immense potential to disrupt the ecosystems and communities of the Ashokan Watershed which would leave deep lasting scars on the Catskill region. 

