

Steve London, CHICHESTER, NY.
I am writing in opposition to the Premium Energy Holdings’ application for a permit to develop a “closed loop” pump storage reservoir system.  I believe Premium’s proposal to be deficient and should be denied.

I live in Chichester, NY, on Stony Clove Creek about two miles from the proposed Alternative #1 Lanesville dam site. In 2005, The Stony Clove Stream Management Plan was published.  The Greene County Soil & Water Conservation District staff and the New York City Department of Environmental Protection completed an assessment of the Stony Clove Creek and its corridor.  The Ashokan Watershed Stream Management website says of this Plan, “This plan provides a comprehensive review of stream characteristics, data, maps, and recommended management strategies.” 

Even a cursory reading of this extensive Plan makes it clear that damming Stony Clove Creek at Lanesville will cause major damage to Stony Clove Creek south of the dam and major damage to the Ashokan Reservoir, and thus to New York City’s drinking water.

The Plan comments that Stony Clove is a major contributor to the turbidity of the Ashokan Reservoir, because of the suspended sediment carried by Stony Clove Creek.  In part, this is due to the “underlying clay-rich glacial geology.”  The Plan comments that glacial clay was observed in a 1996 survey on the banks of Stoney Clove Creek in the parcel of the Creek slated as the site of the dam.  Damming Stony Clove Creek at Lanesville and striping the entire reservoir area of vegetation will create two major problems: 1) The constant change in water level associated the rise and fall of the “upper” reservoir will cause significant erosion, turbidity, and injection of sediment directly into the Ashokan reservoir.  2) The dam will continuously trap the known Stony Clove suspended sediment, thus injecting this sediment directly into the Ashokan Reservoir or causing significant silting of the dam; thereby limiting the dam’s usefulness, life-expectancy, or causing expensive maintenance.

The dam will adversely affect the water quality and flow of Stony Clove Creek south of the dam causing changes in the chemical composition of water and damage to the flora and fauna adjacent to the steam.  Furthermore, the reduction of water flow caused by the Lanesville dam interrupting the water flow of the stream will cause extensive damage to the trout spawning in Stony Clove Creek. 

Also, in the Alternative #1 “Concept” plan, Premium does not indicate exactly where they plan to drill the .27 miles shaft to connect with 10-mile underground tunnel to the Ashokan Reservoir.  That said, from the schematics presented, it appears that shaft will be drilled in land adjacent to Warner Creek, a significant tributary of Stony Clove Creek.  There is no assessment of the realistic impact this would have on water quality. Contrary to Premium’s assertions, I will note that this is not near any existing road and appears to be about .5 miles beyond the end of Silver Hollow Road.

It should be clear to all that the Premium plan is not a “closed-loop” system.  It should be obvious that the Premium Energy Holdings proposal anticipates using Stony Clove water trapped by the Lanesville dam to supplement water presumably they intend to pump up from the Ashokan Reservoir.  I don’t know if they factored Stony Clove Creek water flow into their cost-analysis, but given all the studies done on Stony Clove Creek, they should have been able to provide this information in their application.

Premium Energy Holdings failure to correctly identify the true nature of their plan should be a prima facia case for finding their application deficient.  The fact that they failed to report on the most elemental research nor to contact stake holders not only adds to the deficiencies of their application, but raises concerns about their application as a good faith effort.

I urge the Commission to reject this application and send a message to Premium Energy Holdings that such deficient applications undermine good policy, cause ill-will, waste a lot of peoples’ time and energy, and do nothing to advance the common goal of shifting from a carbon-based energy system.

Sincerely,
Steve London
90 Stoney Clove Ln
Chichester, NY 12416



