

Thomas  Pfeffer, Kingston, NY.
The maps Premium Energy have provided showing the transmission lines go directly across a NYS DEC protected wetland and across/over our home. The wetland located is an important wetland for migratory waterfowl and other birds.

We abided by stringent environmental guidelines to have our home on this property. The Premium Energy proposal is an unfathomable attack on both the environment and NYS laws. 

Premium Energy failed to accurately portray the location of the proposed project. It is IN the NY State Catskill Forest Preserve. The Preserve is an intact, valuable ecosystem  
The Catskill Forest Preserve, which the Premium Energy Proposal falls within, is considered Status 1 land through USGS analysis, which is identified as to be "avoided for development." 

A pumped storage project that uses more energy than it produces is, at a basic level, absolutely foolish.

The path of the proposed transmission lines would destroy intact forests and open up an invasive species corridor that would be the death knell of the State protected lands and species of concern (ex: raptors, song birds, bats, and orchids.

The open-loop, add-on system proposed by Premium Energy is not a proposal that the Federal Government should want to support because of the damage that will be done to the lower reservoir which serves as a drinking water source for over 9 million people. The Premium Energy proposal would negatively impact the drinking water of over 9,000,000 New Yorkers. The turbidity and water fluctuations created by this proposal would also negatively impact important trout habitats and breeding grounds.

Any changes to land management with the Catskill Forest Preserve require a constitutional amendment in the State of New York. 

There should be no foreign investors or investment in United States domestic energy grid projects. I have read that Premium Energy has had foreign investors in previous projects. As a matter of National security, all domestic energy projects should be domestically owned and financed. 

Given the above stated detrimental impacts to an intact forested State preserve, aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, economic industry, and cultural and historic aspects, the Premium Energy Ashokan Pumped Storage Proposal Docket #  P-15056-000 should be denied any future permitting or applications to proceed. 



