

Lindsay Shands, Glenford, NY.
I am 100% opposed to the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project for the following reasons:
1. This project proposal called within the Catskill Forest Preserve, a NYS designated State Park and protected forests. The forest are ranked among the top 1% in the NYS Forest Condition Index.
2. The Catskill Forest Preserve is ranked as Status 1 land through the USGS analysis. Which indicates the land should be “avoided for development.”
3. The region proposed in this project has a long and deep history. The Catskill Forest Preserve was home to indigenous people since the last Ice Age over 12,000 years ago. Because of this, extensive surveys should be conducted by NYS experts and should be hired and paid for by Premium Energy Holdings. This will ensure the historical importance of these cultures are not destroyed.
4. The path of the 800mw transmission lines will cross over and destroy several protected wetlands. There is at least one NYS regulated freshwater wetland AS-10. This is home to migratory birds, including but not limited to Bald Eagles, green heron, great blue heron, kingfishers. This wetland is also home to beaver, otter, turtles, frogs and much more.
5. This pathway will also destroy protected forests and open up the possibility of invasive species to invade those protected lands. Destroying the habitats of raptors, birds, bats, wild flowers.
6. The pathway for the 800mw lines will also cross farmland used to produce food for 1000s of New Yorkers and small businesses who buy the produce for their grocery stores and/or restaurants. These farms were also vital in feeding those experiencing food insecurities during the global pandemic in our area. 
7. Ulster County is a thriving tourist industry creating 20,000 jobs and an approximate annual industry of $1.6 billion. The Ashokan Pumped Storage project would negatively impact the economic viability of Ulster County.
8. The open-loop add-on system is not a proposal the Federal Government should want to support because is will damage the lower reservoir which is a drinking source to NYC. The turbidity and fluctuations created by this system will also negatively impact important trout habitats and breeding grounds.
9. There should be no foreign investors or investment in US domestic energy grid projects. I read that Premium Energy has foreign investors in previous projects. As a matter of national security all domestic energy projects should be domestically owned and financed.

Given all this the proposed P-15056-000 project should be denied in whole.

