

Peggy E Reynolds, Lanesville, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

Additionally, as a homeowner in Lanesville, one whose property would be completely inundated were the Stony Clove site to be approved for a pump-storage reservoir, I have a personal interest in FERC’s decision on this matter. 

Other letter writers have already pointed out the many reasons why Premium’s filing should be rejected: deficiencies in its composition e.g., mischaracterization of the project as a “closed-loop” system, inaccurate sketches of affected areas; the threat it poses to the unique character and protected status of the Catskill Park wilderness area; the havoc that would be wreaked on local economies and on the drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers; the historical abuse suffered by local communities as a result of projects of this nature. 
 
These and related arguments are sound and informative and do not need to be rehearsed again here.  I only wish to add that Premium Energy Holdings has not earned the right, in my opinion, to be given exclusive rights to the installation of hydropower projects in this area.  Even before any feasibility study has begun, they have already lost the trust of local communities by: seemingly putting a minimum of effort into the composition of their filing; appearing to have willfully mischaracterized the nature of the project; and by failing to do any outreach to stakeholders including, but not limited to, the DEC, DEP, local communities and individuals likely to be directly affected  by the project.  Indeed, recognizing the opprobrium that has been directed towards Premium as a result of this behavior, it’s CEO has announced his intention to withdraw their proposal; however, as of this writing, he has yet to do so.  Trust is a necessary ingredient in any project of this size and scope and Premium has already squandered any opportunity they might have had to gain it.

For all the above reasons, I urge you in the strongest terms to reject this filing.

Peggy Reynolds, PhD


