

Stephen A Cooper, Boiceville, NY.
741 Bostock Road
Boiceville, NY 12412


April 12, 2021

Secretary Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Re: FERC project number P-15056-000

Dear Secretary Bose:

I am writing to express my concern over and opposition to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC of California to build a pumped storage and hydroelectric facility using the City of New York’s primary source for drinking water, the Ashokan Reservoir, and surrounding preserved areas, in New York’s Catskill Mountains.  While I support efforts to decarbonize our energy supply, the benefits of this proposed project, and the proposed seismic study, will be marginal at best and do not outweigh the very high costs and risks the project will impose on New York City and the Catskill Mountain region in terms of environmental and economic impact.  Most importantly for this stage of permitting, the application suffers from basic flaws and inaccuracies and does not merit approval.
1.	The preliminary permit, if granted, would put the nation’s largest unfiltered drinking water supply, worth several billion dollars to the City of New York and local communities, at risk, as the applicant intends to spend up to $5 million on subsurface investigations, including soil and rock borings and seismic surveys and testing in the delicate and diligently protected reservoir watershed.  This alone merits denial of the application. It has not been demonstrated by the applicant, limited liability company with proposed budget of $5 million for the proposed study, how the proposal provides adequate protections against substantial impact that the proposed study and project might cause to this critical water supply.
2.	The applicant made numerous errors, omissions and misstatements in the permit application. Most critically, this applicant describes this project as a closed loop but it is actually an open loop: the proposed project is an add-on to an existing reservoir containing New York City’s drinking water, as the Esopus Creek runs into and out of the Ashokan Reservoir. The applicant made several other errors, omissions and misstatements:
•	Portions of the project are in Greene County, which is not listed
•	Maltby Hollow Brook, Dry Brook, Woodland Creek, and Stony Clove Creek are not listed as streams in the impacted area 
•	The project would be situated partly in each of the Town of Olive, Town of Shandaken, Town of Hunter, and the Town of Hurley; none of which are listed
•	The City of Kingston, New York and the Town of Rosendale, New York, are not listed as local political subdivisions within 15 miles of the project and having population over 5,000
•	Several towns were listed in the application that do not exist
2.	The application uses out-of-date and incorrect topographical information, including geographic coordinates that do not correspond to the locations shown on the maps.
3.	The seismic study, and the ensuing project were it to proceed, would impact property that is not subject to the eminent domain power granted by the Federal Power Act.  Specifically, all of the options for the upper reservoir contained in the proposal would involve property that is currently owned by New York State and New York City that meets the description contained in section 21 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. s. 814): of lands or other property that, prior to October 24, 1992, were owned by a State or political subdivision thereof and were part of or included within any public park, recreation area or wildlife refuge established under State or local law. Such property is ineligible to be taken by a licensee under eminent domain.  In addition, a voluntary transfer of such property by the State would require a constitutional amendment, a very difficult, slow, and rarely successful process. The City of New York has already indicated that it will not allow the study or project to proceed on any City-owned land.
4.	By requiring the reservation of up to 15,800 acre feet out of the Ashokan Reservoir’s total capacity of 382,300 acre feet, the project would permanently reduce the capacity of the Ashokan Reservoir to supply drinking water to New York City by over 4%--the equivalent of drinking water for 360,000 people. This will exacerbate current and future stress on the reservoir’s capacity as a result of climate change and resulting reduction in snow pack.
5.	Based on current industry trends, the proposed project is expected to be highly inefficient compared to lithium-ion battery storage in every dimension including even risk-adjusted cost to the highly sensitive ecosystem:  By the sponsor’s own presumably best-case analysis, the plant would consume 1000 MW of power and only generate 800 MW in each cycle of pumping and release.  This consumes net 200 MW per cycle, which represents 80% efficiency.  By contrast, battery technology is more than 90% efficient today, has a far lower impact on the local ecology, and is already being deployed around the world including in Australia and California.
It is not in the public interest to grant a preliminary permit to a project that is based on inaccurate statements and critical omissions, for a project that would at best be inefficient, legally non-viable, and in fact an open-loop as opposed to a closed-loop system.  There is no reason to allow the applicant to continue to expend its own resources, those of the communities, organizations and governments opposed to the project, and those of FERC itself on such an ill-conceived and fatally flawed project. There is no reason to subject one of the nation’s most critical and protected ecological wildness areas containing the nation’s largest source of unfiltered drinking water to a pointless and impactful study. 

Respectfully submitted,

Stephen A. Cooper
FERC ID #F650311

