

David Kukle, Tannersville, NY.
David T Kukle 
As an Induvial but also serve as:
Councilman Town of Hunter
President Mountain Cloves Scenic Byway
Board Member Catskill Center for Conservation and Development 




Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary 					April 11, 2021
Federal Energy Reserve Commission 
888 First Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20426 


Re: Premium Energy Holdings’ First Amendment for Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, FERC Project No. P-15056

 Subj: Comments on Behalf of David Kukle

 Dear Secretary Bose:
I am writing to lend my voice to the growing chorus in opposition to the proposed pump storage system in the Catskill Park, and particularly the Town of Hunter, Greene County New York. This proposal is just becoming known to the Public, after having quietly arriving in our communities. This is about to unleash incredible push back from the millions of New City Residents that are also now just learning about this project. All three of these particular sites have becomes the City dwellers new Central Park. This is where they now come to experience the last vestige of a wilderness experience area within proximity to their home. I sure if the comment period was extended for a short time to allow for the recipients of NYC’s unfiltered water to weigh in, you might need your own Post Office to hand the comments.
The proposed site of this project is spectacularly inappropriate and unsuitable. In exchange for a de minimis and dubious environmental benefit, this project will severely and permanently damage the Catskill Park and its Forest Preserve, one of the most highly valued, protected & preserved sites in all of New York State. Drowning an entire community in Lanesville, damaging state protected lands, adversely affecting drinking water supplies and surface water quality, damaging the economy of Hunter and other Catskill towns, and threatening a host of other adverse environmental impacts is too high a price to pay for whatever tiny benefit this project may bring.
 For anyone who lives in the Catskill Park, or who knows and enjoys the Park, this is obvious. Besides threatening environmental harm, this project also threatens the economic life blood of Hunter and the Catskills communities, communities who have relied upon tourism as their economic engines literally for hundreds of years. In the Catskills, environmental protection and economic health are symbiotic. The health of the environment is directly connected to the health of economies. This project strikes serious blows to both, And the impact of the obliteration and erasure of the entire hamlet of Lanesville in Hunter cannot be overstated. The callousness of proposing this in a mountaintop community, where the memories of the destruction of Ashokan are still vivid and continue to be remembered, written about, and sung about, is shocking.
 Besides all these negatives, there are legal obstacles as well. The lands which the Applicant seeks to use for this project are unattainable due to immovable protections of state law that are exempt from federal eminent domain authority. Granting this permit and forcing all the stakeholders to continue to expend blood and treasure to participate in this review process will perpetrate a tremendous injustice. A continued review of this project will also spawn a long string of dispute resolution and litigation. The opposition to this project isn’t NIMBY-ism. Instead, the project is so ill-conceived that it has drawn vigorous opposition from just about every imaginable quarter. This project is opposed by the Towns of Hunter, Woodstock and Olive, by The Counties of Greene, Ulster and by New York City. Not failing to mention a myriad environmental organization and concerned citizens. The good sense of the collective judgment of this broad coalition should be respected.
 This project is proposed on a site which may easily be the worst possible site for a project of this kind. It is the wrong place for this. It will do more harm than good.
  The time to stop this insanity is now.
 The permit application should be denied. 
Sustaining information in found in the Correspondence from Attorneys Grant and Lyon submitted on behalf of the Town of Hunter 
The decimation of Lanesville and the displacement of its residents.
Route 214 is a vital lifeline to the Town of Hunter and its tourism.
Route 214, and the access it provides, may be lost forever.
Loss of Access to Devils Tombstone Campground.
Destruction of a designated scenic by-way.
This Project is antithetical to Hunter’s Town Comprehensive Plan.
Lack of Notice to Hunter.
The Adverse Impacts this Project will bring to the Catskill Park
Practical impossibility of this project warrants permit denial.
New York State Forever Wild Protection of Forest Preserve Lands.
Lack of federal eminent domain power in this case.
 Impossibility of using New York City lands
The General Adverse Impacts this Project.
 This project will exacerbate existing turbidity problems in the Esopus Creek.
Conclusion. Permit denial is warranted
The permit sought by the Applicant should be denied based on the practical impossibility of acquiring the lands necessary to build this project. While possession of the necessary property rights are not a requirement of the permit, it should be a basis for denial in this case. To grant this permit, and to place the local stakeholders in the position of having to continue to expend time and money to engage and participate in this impossible project would perpetrate a tremendous injustice. The resources of local governments, and individuals are stretched thin already without this pointless additional burden. The same can be said for the myriad environmental organizations which have mobilized to oppose this thoughtless application.

I appreciate your consideration on this matter 
Respectfully

David Kukle
PO Box 164
Tannersville, NY
12485


