

Brian McDonald, Mount Tremper, NY.
As residents and home/property owners in Mount Tremper and NYC me and my family have a very intimate relationship with the Catskill Mountains and the NYC watershed. More specifically the Esopus creek and Ashokan reservoir. Our property in Mount Tremper is adjacent to NYC watershed property our condo in NYC utilizes this same water. Nearly all residents and visitors alike are drawn to the Catskills for the natural splendor the area provides and our family relishes in the natural recreational opportunities in the area. We are avid hikers and I am devout fly fisherman on the Espous. As much as we enjoy and treasure the natural beauty found in the Catskills we also appreciate the importance of the city and its challenges in handling over 8 millions inhabitants. I am acutely inspired by the ingenuity and the sacrifices it took to develop the reservoir watershed to provide clean and safe drinking water for the inhabitants of NYC. Catskill residents and resources ware severely impacted in creating the reservoirs; ultimately they have been successful and since those initial impacts the City and DEC have been working with the state and local municipalities to mitigate further impacts and when possible improve the surrounding areas.
With the knowledge of this history and personal relationship with the area me and my family vehemently oppose Premium Energy Holding’s application for permit for the proposed hydro electric project. I consider my family environmentalists and we strongly support alternative energy sources/programs but all presented and available information on this project represent significant negative impacts to the local environment not to mention the water source for nearly 9 million people. This project will have a negative impact on nearly every outdoor recreational activity that the Catskill park was preserved for: hiking, hunting, fishing, etc. 
The Catskills represent a historically significant touchstone of American naturalism that was memorialized in the work of great American artists such as Thomas Cole and Washington Irving. Please do everything in your power to acknowledge and preserve our natural resources and our history and deny the permit application of Premium Energy Holdings. 

