

Robert Howe, Wesr Shokan, NY.
April 11,2021
RE: MOTION TO INTERVENE Docket # P-15056 – Ashokan Pumped Storage Project 
Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Rules, Practices and Procedures (18 CFR Section 385.314(a)(3)), I am a resident of the Town of Olive and I have a vital interest in the Preliminary Permit application submitted to the Commission by Premium Energy Holdings for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056).
My home for the past 21 years, 200 yards from the edge of Route 28a and the Ashokan Reservoir, is in direct proximity with the proposed. 
As a resident of one of the towns that is being proposed by Premium Energy Holdings as a site for a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity, I vigorously object to the proposal and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny Premium Energy Holding’s application for a preliminary permit. 
•	The proposed project is massive, intrusive, and if constructed, likely to damage local lands, roads, and streams and to cause increased turbidity in waters serving as an unfiltered drinking water source for nine million people in New York City. 
•	Wildlife in our pristine, residential, rural Catskill community is rich; inclusive of a full natural order, which, daily, visit and pass through our small estate.  The damage to habitats resulting from the proposed project is callous and harrowing to consider.
•	We, my wife and I, are in our late 80’s.  We retired in 2019.  Our decision to remain in this home was based on our love of what we enjoy as part of this remarkable community.  The time it would take to complete this project, with the interference from the construction activity nearby our home, noise and traffic on our roads, is overwhelming and against every reason we have for staying here.  Considering what it might be like after the massive project is alarming.
•	I want to emphasize that where we live is a residential area, as is most of the broad area that the project can impact.  The diverse makeup of the population includes many retirees like ourselves, longtime residents, professionals and blue collar.  
Please do everything in your power to prevent this proposal from moving forward.

Sincerely,
Robert Howe
914-388-0330
Organic13@earthlink.net


