

Gayle Panzenbeck, Windham, NY.
I am writing this comment in response to docket P-15056. 

Please deny the permit to Premium Energy Holdings,LLC.

The proposal for the hydroelectric plant in the Catskill Forest Preserve is not wanted here on this pristine mountaintop.  It is protected under the NYS Constitution.

It will uproot people from their homes which is a terrible thing to do to people, and families. You can't possibly imagine what that is like unless it happens to you.

It will effect stream ecology, plant and animal species, and trout fishing.  The Catskill Park is an important bird area as noted by the Audubon Society.

In the early 1800's people came by train from NYC to look at nature as a revitalizing escape from crowded, unhealthy, conditions. Before cars they boarded horse and buggies to climb up to the top of these mountains. We that live here now know why they came: beauty, exercise, and fresh air.   As of late there are more people coming here for the serenity and to escape the crowded city bombarded by the covid epidemic.  Very similar to the need to leave in the 1800's.  

It is a majestic place to just BE.  

People that live, visit, and have 2nd homes here cherish it for the exact same reasons. They come from states all around and southern states as well.  They come to fish, hike, ski, relax, hunt, play golf. Tourism brings revenue to our smaller population on the mountaintop.  It generated 17% of jobs in 2019.  We need income up here for growing families.

This area  is of historical significance.  The Tanning industry thrived here.  The famous Romantic painters, Thomas Cole and Frederic Church made their homes here to paint our most breathtaking views. Some accessible by trails. We are concerned about the loss of access to these magnificent trails.

John Burroughs the American Naturalist was born in Roxbury, N.Y. and wrote about his love of nature.  He was friends with Teddy Roosevelt, Henry Ford, Harvey Firestone, Thomas Edison, John Muir, and Walt Whitman.

They all shared the love of  nature, as we do, living here.

Teddy went on to conserve lands.  He created the United States Forest Service, 51 bird reserves and so much more.  He did it to protect the land and animals and make it available for generations to come.

That is what we want for The Catskills.  If we keep finding ways to destroy natural beauty and land, it is destroyed forever.  The next generation will not share in this splendor. With it goes wildlife specific to this area.

There are a wide variety of animals in the Catskills.   A pocket of golden eagles are here and the size and extent of the population is being explored.  Bald eagles travel here. We see them in residential as well as remote areas.  There are 84,541 eagles in just the Atlantic Flyway alone and the population has risen four-fold since 2009 in the United States. Flyway means a seasonal route they follow as they migrate between nesting and wintering areas.

We have coyotes, fox, fisher cats, deer, turkeys, bears, trout, and a wide array of plant species. There are an estimated 6-8,000 bears in New York State with 30-35% in the Catskill region.  That is approximately 2,400 bears.  They are seen off and on foraging for food.  I have see them along Route 214, the Stony Clove Notch Area.

To put the reservoir in that area would be destroying habitat not just for bears but other animals as well.

Disrupting a main road from Hunter to the town of Phoenicia will make it inconvenient to travel and put more traffic on the other roads.

It is inconceivable that anyone can entertain the thought of tearing up so much land, moving people, altering habitats, possibly effecting the water supply for 9.5 million people in New York City,  use more energy to operate the system than the system will produce, for a extremely high cost, without first evaluating the use of other forms of green energy, wind, solar.....

We are nearing the end of a pandemic.  The economy has suffered and states have lost a good deal of their money. It has been unlike any year we have ever had. Our lives have been turned upside down.  We lost friends and family.  Please do not make us lose anymore of what we hold dear to us. 

We so love it here.

During the worst times in the pandemic we went out into nature where we found solace and peace to  carry us through this. We must preserve the park for all, for all that it gives us.  We all want peace and time to heal.  Not more turmoil.

Do the right thing, please deny this permit!


