

Deanna Schwarz, West Shokan, NY.
I am writing to express my significant concerns with regards to the proposal to obtain a preliminary permit for the construction of the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.  I am a homeowner in West Shokan near the Ashokan reservoir and I believe the project as proposed could have significant effects on the surrounding community that far outweigh the benefits of the energy it would generate for times of high demand.  This type of construction can take years (and, based on my own preliminary research) often runs over budget due to unforeseen hurdles once excavation begins.  The project is in the heart of New York’s Catskill Park where so many come to enjoy the beauty and the recreation opportunities afforded by the wilderness.  The area around Ashokan Reservoir, in particular, is quite popular with tourists all year round as a place to come to hike, climb, fish, hunt, and ski.  A project like this could disrupt these activities for years and potentially impact the economic health that depends on this activity.

While I am only beginning to understand the specifics of the proposal made by Premium Energy Holdings, I do have significant concerns specifically related to the potential for ecological disruption due to the construction of the upper pool and the tunnels that would be needed for the closed loop system.  All three of the alternative upper reservoir locations are proposed at substantial distances (from ~3 to 10 miles) from the Ashokan Reservoir, the proposed lower pool.  Similar (albeit open-loop) pumped storage projects (e.g., the Blenheim-Gilboa HPS in Schoharie County) have upper reservoirs often located less than half a mile from the lower reservoir).  In addition to concerns about ecological disruption due to such extended tunneling, pumping water uphill for that extended distance (even if done at night/when costs are low) seems inefficient and could offset the benefits of the pumped storage system.  Finally, even if Premium Energy determines that the proposed Woodland Reservoir, the closest of the three proposed upper pool locations, is feasible, the area they are proposing appears to be situated near many residential properties along Moon Haw Rd in West Shokan and the tunneling could impact other areas of the hamlet.  Consideration for the impact on these property owners and the hamlet overall must be taken into account.

I, as many home owners in this area, are committed to finding more opportunities to transition to renewable energy sources.  I ask FERC to carefully consider whether this project is the right one for the region.  Thank you.


