

MICHAEL MOSS, PRATTSVILLE, NY.
Michael A. Moss, Ph.D.
11662 Route 23A
Prattsville, NY 12468

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE, Rm 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

April 10, 2021

Docket number P-15056-000

Ashokan Proposal to FERC for a Pumped Storage Add-On* Project in the Catskill State Forest Preserve


Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in support of a denial of a preliminary permit by Premium Energy docket number P-15056, to build a pumped storage add-on in the Catskill State Forest Preserve. I believe that we cannot allow Premium Energy to begin a process of attempting to overcome very powerful forces against it at this time and in the future. There are now major intervenors attempting to wash out the validity of this preliminary request. I am writing to ensure that these intervenors have my support.

Among the many reasons that the Premium Energy application should be denied include turbidity, water level changes in the Ashokan reservoir that will wipe out ecologically fragile systems, and destruction of trout habitat in the longest trout fishing stream in New York State. Due to destratification of the Ashokan Reservoir, it will change the temperature of the water of that stream which will affect the viability of trout to lay eggs and affect adversely the fragile ecosystem of that riparian environment. Destratification of the Ashokan Reservoir also eliminates the cold water at the bottom layer feeding into the tunnel leading to New York City, adversely affecting this unfiltered water supply to the city. The sound and the destruction of the environment by massive earth moving machines, dynamiting and drilling to 300 feet deep, digging holes to construct a generating station, and drilling of a 42 foot wide tunnel that will extend up to the upper reservoir (which is the add-on) and the 300 foot tall, half mile wide dam will destroy a valley that was constructed specifically in the Catskills to make a beautiful environment for people to live, in addition to the destruction of all of those homes in that valley. One of the three Premium Energy projected sites, Woodland Valley, is on State Land which is protected and cannot be built on without the State Legislature and the Governor signing off on such an amendment to the State Constitution. My prediction is that it will fail to achieve the granting of an amendment to the State Constitution which applies strictly to State Land.

Forty years ago a project in Prattsville, NY (see link below) almost exactly like the Premium Energy project was denied the ability to go forward by the DEP which determined that there would be turbidity in the water as a result of the pumping, and that because of destratification of the lower reservoir the temperature would not be the same after it was returned from the upper reservoir, thereby threatening the fragile ecosystem of the reservoir, in this case the Schoharie Reservoir. Since the Schoharie Reservoir feeds directly into the Esopus Creek through the Shandaken Tunnel, the two cases are exactly parallel. There is a study (see link below) going on right now studying turbidity in the Lanesville area, a third Premium Energy site, which will of course suffer from the same effect. That study is trying to determine whether runoff from a large rainfall will affect turbidity. Imagine how raising and lowering the water level of the Ashokan reservoir will affect the turbidity of the unfiltered water that goes into the water system of New York City which feeds 40% of its population. Because the effect on turbidity is equivalent to that of the rejected Prattsville project 40 years ago I submit this project should also be denied. 

Although normally, I would support green and sustainable energy initiatives, this one is ill-thought out, destructive, and damaging to the Catskills. It threatens NYC drinking water and wildlife, local businesses and revenue from tourism, people's homes, as well as the 100-year old Catskills Preserve which is constitutionally protected by NY State law.	

Deny this application.

Respectfully yours, 
Michael Moss Ph.D.

Link to River Reporter article describing Prattsville project:  https://riverreporter.com/stories/prattsville-rides-again,43064?fbclid=IwAR3_NCUhZ4yx2YHN_ueDVHhZ1i2oIFm1Jc698o5LLvQsrgiRVs6utEuZagA - .YGZnDEAQLxQ.mailto

Link to USGS survey:  https://www.usgs.gov/centers/ny-water/science/upper-esopus-creek-tributary-bedload-pilot-study?qt-science_center_objects=0 - qt-science_center_objects


