

Michelle Friedel, West Shokan, NY.
Michelle Friedel, West Shokan, NY

Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE, Room 1A, 
Washington, DC 20426

Re:  Docket P-15056 Ashokan Pumped Storage

To whom it may concern,

This correspondence is in direct response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) proposed Project No. 15056-000, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, submitted by Premium Energy Holdings LLC, Walnut, CA. 

Permitting this proposal to move any further through the FERC, to the feasibility study, would be detrimental to the lives of all who live in the proposed feasibility study areas. It would be directly harmful to our community by disrupting our local and regional economy and would directly displace long term residents and decimate wildlife in the area if it were to move forward. 

In particular, the proposed Wittenburg Reservoir site, which would be located on Moonhaw Road according to the project’s application, is incredibly rich with geological history noted by the famous geologist Arnold Guyor who identified this area to have significant glacial features. There have been numerous works published documenting the history of the Catskill Forest and the geological treasures of this area.

From our research, it appears that Premium Energy puts out a great deal of proposals regarding these types of projects, with the hopes one of them might stick and go through. In reviewing the proposal and all their other filings for a pumped storage power plant, there is a major consensus that their preparation and planning is simply a copy and paste job. The contents within the application exhibit a lack of expertise and knowledge of the lands they propose to use by obtaining permission or by means of eminent domain.

Our small but mighty Town of Olive is vital to the economy of Ulster County, and the Catskills Region as a whole. We are a recreational destination for local folks and visitors alike. As previously mentioned this project will directly negatively impact the Catskills tourism economy. According to the New York State Department of Labor, tourism is most important to the Catskills since it generates 15% of total employment for the area. Tourism Economics is an Oxford Economics company, which states that the Catskills region has one of the strongest gains in traveler spending in particular when it comes to recreation, lodging and restaurants. Premium Energy has put its project proposal in direct alignment to adversely affect the economy in all three proposed sites. This again highlights the impact of sanctioning this proposal’s dangerous forward momentum. 

On a more personal level, the Friedel family has lived on and owned our land for over 20 years. I myself have lived in the Town of Olive for 20 years, raising my two sons, and building our home by hand, on our land. The idea that Premium Energy’s proposal threatens multiple municipalities and hundreds of home-owners by seizing property by eminent domain is incredibly traumatizing to imagine. The stress and anxiety that this proposal has brought to the various communities and individuals is real. The Ashokan Reservoir was built between 1907 and 1915, and during this time thousands of residents lost their homes, businesses, and communities. I can’t help but reflect on the events that occurred in 1907 and wonder if history is repeating itself in 2021. The Ashokan Reservoir has prohibited various activities around the area (swimming, motorboating, diving etc.) in order to protect the quality of the water, yet Premium Energy’s proposal threatens this preservation work. The 53 private property owners of Moonhaw Road and those surrounding the project site are at great risk for permanent displacement, loss of income, and generational trauma if this proposal were to move forward. 

I myself have many questions; Who are the investors of Premium Energy? Which power purchasing entities are making a profit off this project? Who economically benefits from  this project? Most importantly, who will hold this California based company, Premium Energy, accountable for their ethics, standards, and workmanship? The application submitted is a poor example of Premium Energy’s knowledge of the area, and the plethora of errors that have been highlighted from the various comments that have been filed regarding docket number P-15056 are startling.

Thank you for your consideration of this matter and I trust that the Commission will reject the proposal due to the egregious nature of its contents and the aforementioned grounds.  

Sincerely,


Michelle Friedel


