

Andrey Zhukov-Khovanskiy, Chichester, NY.
To: Kimberly D. Bose 
Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE, Room 1A, Washington, DC 20426

Dear Secretary Bose, I am a resident of Chichester, NY (Ulster County), and I am writing this to strongly oppose the Application for Preliminary Permit submitted by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC (docket # P-15056-000). The reason of my objection count on both the deficient and misleading of the proposal and dramatically negative effect on wildlife of the proposed location.

The proposal make believe the project will take place not into heart of Catskills Forest Preserve (established 1885) but some Catskill Mountains. The Catskills Forest Preserve has long time been identified as an area with a greater need for environmental protection and has the constitutional protections of the NYS lands. Despite on this all three of proposed sites for upper reservoir and main power plant facility are actually located squarely within the boundaries of the protected Catskills Preserve.
 
The proposal states the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a “closed loop” and   the existing Ashokan Reservoir’s water storage would not be used for project operation. The review of the request clearly shows that it is false statement. In fact the proposal is actually an “open loop”, an add-on project where an upper reservoir would be added to already existing lower reservoir connected to a natural water source. Ashokan Reservoir is a source of 40% of the drinking water of New York City. The impact of such an open loop system to Ashokan Reservoir would be significant and damaging. Construction of such scale will result in higher loads of sediment transport in the named streams, something that the NYC Department of Environmental Protection and NYS Department of Environmental Conservation have been studying and trying to prevent by investing in restoration projects in the watershed in our area.

As citizen who cares deeply about environment a wildlife protection, I’d like to draw your attention to the devastation that this construction will bring to federally listed species with the “critical habitat” in Catskills Forest Preserve. Namely, federally endangered Indiana bat (Myotis sodalis), federally threatened northern long-eared bat (Myotis septentrionalis), federally threatened Northern wild monkshood (Aconitum noveboracense) and the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), that remains on the New York State list as a state-listed threatened species. The Catskills Forest Preserve is a rare protected land that was preserved by our predecessors for the generations to come specifically to leave it intact, and protect its wildlife. 

I strongly urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny Premium Energy Holdings, LLC request for a preliminary permit to study the feasibility of a pumped-storage hydropower facility connected to Ashokan Reservoir.

Best regards,
Andrey Zhukov-Khovanskiy
199 Stony Clove Lane
Chichester NY, 12416


