

Mark Loete, Chichester, NY.

Ms. Kimberly Bose                                                                            Secretary Federal Energy Regulatory Commission                                             888 First Street NE                                                                    Washington, DC 20426 
RE: Docket #P-15056 Ashokan pumped storage hydroelectric proposal 
Dear Ms Bose, 
I’m writing to express my opposition to the pumped storage hydroelectric generation project proposed by Premium Energy Holdings LLC for the Catskill Mountain region of upstate New York. (FERC Docket #P-15056). 
While recognizing the role pumped storage hydro electricity generation has in our future of a clean, renewable energy economy, the Catskill Mountains and Catskill State Park are the absolutely worst possible choice of location for the project proposed by Premier Energy. The reasons are numerous. Where to begin? 
1) Article XIV of the New York State Constitution (amended to the NYS Constitution in 1904) explicitly designates the Catskill State Forest lands as “Forever Wild”. A rare thing in today’s America. “Forever Wild” still means forever wild. This project would require an amendment of the NYS Constitution to move forward. 
2) Any one of the three proposed upper storage reservoir locations would require the seizure and inundation of numerous privately owned parcels. The proposed site for the Woodland Valley upper storage reservoir, by example, would displace and disenfranchise an estimated 75 to 100 homeowners. 
3) While the latest scattershot proposals from Premium Energy would seem to indicate land to be inundated by the upper reservoir proposed locations would be primarily privately owned land that would be seized by eminent domain, the disruption of natural wildlife habitat, riverine drainage systems, pristine forest growth patterns, etc, would be felt throughout the contiguous forest ecosystem.
4) All three of the current proposals for the upper storage reservoir location would subsume critical wild trout habitat. The Catskill Mountains are world famous for our wild trout angling opportunities. In a “Forever Wild” economic environment, our wilderness resources are our most valuable economic resource. Compromising our free flowing trout streams is compromising the life-blood of our economy.
5) The Catskill Mountain water resources are the drinking water source for nine million (and counting) New York City residents. The Esopus Creek drainage, where the project is sited, is the source of 40-45% of that water, delivered to NYC taps UNFILTERED. The Catskill-sourced, New York City water system is the largest ground water sourced municipal water delivery system on the planet. 
Urban planning officials come to the Catskills from all over the world to study it. New York City is one of only five municipalities nationwide that are allowed to deliver tap water unfiltered. This by fiat of a “Filtration Avoidance Determination” issued by the Environmental Protection Agency. The disruption of free-flowing drainage systems and the resulting disruption of natural bed load transport and increased turbidity threatens New York City’s Filtration Avoidance Determination, at a potential cost of billions of $ annually to construct and maintain a municipal filtration system. 
Many more objections could be raised, and they have been elsewhere. The detriments of P-15056 so far outweigh the benefits, one wonders if the applicant, Premium Energy Holdings, has ever even visited the proposed sites. Likely not. I’m asking, as a private citizen residing in the Catskill Mountains, and as the president of our local Ashokan-Pepacton Watershed Chapter of Trout Unlimited conservation group, to deny the permit to study this proposal. 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Mark Loete 
President Ashokan-Pepacton Watershed Chapter – Trout Unlimited 


