

Barbara Becker, West Shokan, NY.
27 Dry Brook Road
West Shokan, NY 12494

24 Monroe Place, #1D
Brooklyn, NY 11201

April 11, 2021

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Re: Docket # P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose: 

As a homeowner in both West Shokan, Ulster County, New York and Brooklyn Heights, Kings County, New York, I am writing to oppose the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, of Walnut, California, as submitted in Docket #P-15056-000 for an Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, to build a reservoir, dam, pumping station and high-voltage electricity lines in Ulster County. I appeal to the FERC to seriously consider all the reasons why this proposal should be rejected, and then to reject it. 

As others, including individuals, Ulster County and the New York City Department of Environmental Conservation have outlined in great detail, there are numerous reasons why this proposal should not be granted. While all are greatly important to me, I cite below in brief a few that are of gravest concern.

* The proposal itself is, in its essence, deeply flawed. It endeavors to categorize the project a “closed-loop” one, when in fact it most obviously is not, but rather is clearly an “add-on” to the existing Ashokan Reservoir. That gross misrepresentation alone should be grounds for rejection.

* If conducted, a project of this magnitude would have devastating environmental impact. It would impinge on protected Catskill Forest Preserve land and waters, severely and permanently damaging land and aquatic species. 

* If conducted, this project, from the outset of construction, would threaten the quality of the 1 billion gallons of drinking water provided every day to 9.5 million residents of New York City. The Ashokan Reservoir is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation. Tampering with its quality and that of the many clear-running feeder creeks that supply the extensive watershed would be senseless.

* If conducted, this project would once again have a horrific impact on the local community. You are no doubt familiar with what happened about 100 years ago when the Ashokan Reservoir was built — land seized, entire communities, including cemeteries, flooded, farms and livelihoods lost; our local area is still feeling the difficult after-effects of that devastation. If the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project were to proceed, history would repeat itself, but in much greater magnitude. My own 200+ year-old home, which survived that first seizure, lies perilously close to the proposed site in West Shokan, and would likely not survive this round of eminent domain. And I am only one of many homeowners who would suffer this way.

For all the reasons above, and many others of which you are no doubt aware, I respectfully request that Premium Energy’s proposal — and similar proposals from other companies that you may receive in the future — be summarily dismissed.


Sincerely,

Barbara E. Becker

27 Dry Brook Road, West Shokan, NY 12494
24 Monroe Place, #1D, Brooklyn, NY 11201





