

Dianna Brindle, PHOENICIA, NY.
Dear Secretary Bose,

As a resident of Woodland Valley, I object to Premium Energy's proposal, docket # P-15056-000, to build a pumped storage hydroelectric plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir as its lower reservoir. This proposal does not meet the FERC standard for granting a preliminary license. The permit application filed by Premium Energy should be rejected for its large number of mistakes, falsehoods and omissions.

Premium Energy states that this proposal is for a "closed-loop" project, making it eligible for streamlined FERC approval; however, the system Premium Energy describes is NOT a closed-loop system. It is an add-on project to the existing Ashokan reservoir, that is continuously connected to a naturally flowing water feature. The naturally flowing water feature that was originally dammed to construct the Ashokan Reservoir is Esopus Creek, which is not only an asset of high environmental value in the Catskills ecosystem, but is part of the New York City water supply, the largest unfiltered water supply in the
nation, and an infrastructure asset worth tens of billions of dollars to the city of New York. 

The New York State and New York City lands for the upper and lower reservoirs in the proposal are environmentally protected lands. Precedented legal protections have long been established for the entire watershed of NYC and NYS “Forever Wild” forests. It is unfeasible to pursue a project of this size and scale in such an environmentally fragile and legally protected area that contributes so much to the economy of our region. In addition, there are environmental legal barriers the applicant will likely face due to the project’s impact on rare and endangered species, and with the impoundment of streams containing trout habitats.

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly fragmented environment; the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program. Areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.

The Catskills Water Supply provides 90% of NYC’s water, a water supply that provides 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people. The Catskill Water Supply (40% of NYC’s water) comprises the Ashokan and Schoharie Reservoirs. The pumped storage project is likely to increase the turbidity in the Ashokan, which would decrease the quality of NYC drinking water. The quality of this water supply is governed by a regularly updated Filtration Avoidance Determination issued by the EPA.

Premium Energy’s proposed project would also hugely impact Catskills tourism, a $1.6 billion industry in the region, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs.

I respectfully request that FERC deny this preliminary license application.

Sincerely, 
Dianna Brindle


