

Lissa Kiernan, West Hurley, NY.
Lissa Kiernan
1693 State Route 28A
West Hurley, NY 12491

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the seriously troubling proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water, and potentially to human health.

Premium Energy’s proposal to construct a new reservoir, dam, and underground power station to harness the Ashokan Reservoir and its watershed for hydroelectric power would directly impact my home and business. I live in West Hurley, 0.4 miles from the Ashokan Reservoir Spillway. I moved here six years ago from New York City.I now live adjacent to the watershed that supplied the majority of the drinking water for the city I lived in for 30 years. I was shocked to learn that West Hurley and ten other towns were seized to create the reservoir. I have neighbors who can attest to the devastating effect of this act of eminent domain on their lives firsthand. Similarly, the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056 threatens to devastate my community by disrupting our economy and displacing its residents.

While there is no question that the Ashokan Reservoir project was a crushing hit to this area, at least it fixed a problem: getting much-needed water to the growing population of New York City. Conversely, it is unclear to me what problem the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056 would solve. While no doubt pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a role in the transition to renewable energy, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

I am a small business owner, and my business is home-based. I chose this location, in part, for its proximity to these protected lands, an Audubon Important Bird area and top 1% of forest habitats region-wide. I offer writing workshops, readings, and retreats through my LLC, The Poetry Barn. The barn also serves as a private library holding over 3,000 volumes, and serving the community as a free poetry resource. My business relies heavily on the Catskill tourism industry, seeing the majority of its visitors during the high seasons of spring, summer, and fall. My organization's workshops and events are typically attended by a mix of locals and visitors. The Catskills’ growing tourism economy generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Ulster County represents 43% of that market. Premium Energy’s project would dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

My business is writing, not energy. However, I did write a book—"Glass Needles & Goose Quills" (Haley's, 2014), that examined lessons learned from Yankee Rowe Atomic, which operated as a prototype nuclear power plant.In 1997, The Massachusetts Department of Public Health conducted a study (“Assessment of Cancer Incidence and Down Syndrome Prevalence in the Deerfield River Valley, Massachusetts”) of the area downwind from that plant and found statistically significant elevations in breast cancer, Down Syndrome, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, the type of cancer from which my father died, manifesting as a brain tumor type known as Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma.

The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would place 12.9 miles of 230kV high-tension transmission lines, including some adjacent to my home and business. The potential health risks of living near overhead high voltage transmission power lines are still controversial particularly as regards long-term health effects like cancer. The literature does suggest, however, that ELF-EMF exposure could be involved in the occurrence of brain tumors. According to a study conducted to investigate the association between residential proximity to power lines and brain tumors among adults in France,“a death certificate-based case-control study found an association between adult brain tumor mortality and living less than 50m from a power line and a recent case-control study found an association between adult brain tumors and particularly meningioma and living less than 100m from a power line (“Residential proximity to power lines and risk of brain tumor in the general population.") 

The project would certainly harm the health of animals and plants. While it’s proposers are proclaiming it a closed-loop project it is in reality an “add-on” project. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher environmental risks. Even when complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats because the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people.

For these reasons, I urge you to do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely, 
Lissa Kiernan 

