

A. Gaudioso, West Hurley, NY.
Dear Commissioner,				RE: Docket number  P-15056-000

I am a 20-year homeowner and Ulster County resident and taxpayer. I’m also someone who recreates on New York State’s Constitution-protected lands surrounding the Ashokan Reservoir and our magnificent Catskills Forest Preserve as a hiker, birder, and environmental advocate. However and whenever I am able, I personally promote “leave no trace” principles. If it's not already clear, I LOVE the amazing Catskills, where it is I call home! 

As you know, it is this same protected land that is being proposed by Premium Energy Holdings (PEH) as a site for a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity. I am writing today to vigorously object to this project in its preliminary stages for all of three proposed locations in Olive, Shandaken, and Phoenicia’s Woodland Valley. 

While I certainly welcome viable alternative solutions to fossil fuel-sourced or nuclear energy, this hydroelectric plan by Premium Energy is not among them: It attempts to put forth an inefficient and ill-conceived project that this “Status 1” area of the Catskills (to be avoided for development), will not be able to sustain without serious and lasting detriment. 

The proposed project is massive, intrusive, and if constructed, likely to highly impact local lands, roads, and stream ecology, and to cause increased turbidity in waters—adversely affecting fish and wildlife habitat and protected species. Furthermore, it is reportedly not the kind of innovation the NYS Department of Energy states that it wants: this proposal is being promoted as a “closed-loop” project, which it emphatically is not. (Unfortunately, transparency has not been at the forefront of PEH’s ambitious undertaking.) If it moves forward, it will also impact on the Catskills’ tourist economy and the precious historical and cultural artifacts in our valley. Likewise, it can do irreparable damage to the unfiltered drinking water source for millions of residents in New York City. 

For all these reasons, I respectfully request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission denies Premium Energy’s application for a preliminary permit. 

I appreciate your time and attention to a matter that is of significant importance to folks not merely who live in these three proposed sites. As stated, so many more of us who live and work and recreate in this area are convinced that the Premium Energy project, if given an early pass, will have a negative impact for generations on our entire region and well beyond the so-named towns and terrain.

I ask that the Commission does everything in its considerable power to prevent this misguided endeavor from advancing in any way.

Thanking  you for your time, and the time you have permitted me to express my sincere concerns.

Respectfully submitted.


