

Dorothy Solomon, Olivebridge, NY.
To: Kimberly D. Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
888 First St. NE, Room 1A 
Washington, D.C. 20426

RE:  Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I respectfully submit my response to the unsound and inaccurate proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would 

     have a devastating impact on the local environment 

     be highly disruptive to local communities and 

     create an unnecessary,and potentially hazardous effect on the purity of a  
     water supply that provides 1 billion gallons a day equaling 40% of New York
     City's drinking water. 

Even though pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, the 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat containing pristine, protected forests, streams, and wildlife of the Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. 

Under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be an abhorrent act to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a catastrophic precedent for protected lands across the country.

As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

Even once construction is complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir. 

Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Another key point in opposition to Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, is that their proposal does not represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and thus, are eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is falsely claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would make false claims in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, threaten incredibly important natural resources, threaten the local ecosystem and displace vulnerable communities.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.  Thank you.

Sincerely,

Dorothy Solomon
Olivebridge, NY 12461



