

Michelle Hinchey, Kingston, NY.
April 11, 2021

Michelle Hinchey 
New York State Senator, 46th Senate District

TO: Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426 

RE: Docket Number P-15056-000	

Dear Secretary Bose, 

As the State Senator representing New York’s 46th Senate District, I am writing to express my strong opposition to the preliminary permit application submitted by Premium Energy Holdings LLC to study the feasibility of building an underground hydroelectric power plant at the Ashokan Reservoir. This proposal threatens irreparable damage to the quality of our drinking water in the Hudson Valley and in New York City; the constitutionally protected lands of the Catskill Forest Preserve; the precious ecological biodiversity of our region; the communities within areas where upper basins are proposed, and our Catskills tourism economy. 

While I fully support New York’s transition to renewable, green energy sources, and recognize that all energy production involves certain trade-offs, we cannot take on projects that would destroy our highly preserved lands and water resources. This sited project is too high a price to pay. 

Premium Energy, a California-based company, has put forth a proposal that demonstrates a complete lack of knowledge of our local terrain or regard for the well-being of people living in the region of this proposed endeavor. If Premium Energy had chosen to consult local governments or New York City’s Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) prior to submitting their application, they would have learned that portions of the upper reservoirs they seek to construct fall within New York State Forest Preserve lands, which would be a direct violation of the New York State Constitution. Article XIV of our State Constitution reads that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve, which is home to endangered and rare animal and plant species, contains 700,000 acres of wildlife habitat, and according to the New York State Forest Condition Index, the forest around the proposed sites rank among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide. We protect these fragile lands for good reason, and Premium Energy’s project would absolutely devastate the significant natural resources that make up our treasured Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Of particular concern to me and my constituents is the unacceptable water quality impacts that this project would have for our Hudson Valley communities and over 9.5 million residents of New York City that rely on the Ashokan Reservoir for drinking water. Turbidity in the Ashokan is already a grave environmental and economic challenge for our downstream communities, and the continual pumping and releasing of millions of gallons of water--as proposed by this project--would exacerbate the issue even further. Degrading our water supply would also have a major impact on our agriculture-based businesses, which is a significant concern for me as Chair of the Senate Agriculture Committee. Our local craft beverage industry, for example, depends on freshwater sources to produce their high-quality products. At a time of great economic uncertainty, our small, farm-based businesses need to know that the natural resources they rely on will remain unharmed. 

Premium Energy’s project would also pose substantial harm to the use and enjoyment of our recreational resources and would cut off key areas of growth for our Catskills tourism economy--a $1.6 billion industry that supports approximately 20,000 jobs. This project would wipe out some of the world’s best fishing streams, access to hiking trails and skiing opportunities, and negatively affect our business community, which relies on the millions of dollars in local spending that visitors bring in from across the region.   

On Thursday, April 8, 2021, my office organized a press conference attended by a diverse coalition of environmental stewards, municipal leaders, and area residents to voice our vehement opposition to this proposal, which can be viewed here. Premium Energy’s proposal came as a shock to all of us, and within a few weeks of learning about the project, an organized alliance of over 200 citizens and environmental groups formed the Coalition to Save Catskills Preserve, which has grown to include local elected representatives and community leaders. This coalition is a clear testimony of the strong opposition to this project and together, we are united in our goal to protect the ecological integrity of our region’s irreplaceable lands and waters. 

As we make the important and absolutely necessary transition to renewables, we must give careful consideration to where we are siting these projects in a way that best protects our natural and cultural resources and ensures minimal impacts on the surrounding land and communities. As it stands, Premium Energy’s proposal would destroy the purity of our drinking water, devastate our protected wilderness, and displace communities, which is why the Ashokan Reservoir and the Catskill Park are not the right place for a pumped storage project. It is our hope that Premium Energy will recognize these unacceptable impacts and withdraw its application immediately. 

I stand in firm opposition to the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, and I strongly urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to decline Premium Energy’s request for a preliminary permit to further develop this dangerous and ill-conceived plan. 

Sincerely, 

Michelle Hinchey
New York State Senator, 46th District

