

Adeline Basil, Lexington, NY.
Docket Number P-15056-000
Dr. Adeline Basil
Lexington, New York 12452

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
8The Premium Energy Holding of Walnut, California has applied for a permit to conduct studies regarding building a “Pumped Storage Plant” utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir. I wish to register my objections and concerns for this initiative in the strongest possible terms.
I am a resident of this area for over 50 years, and my love for these lands and the way of life provided is significant. My children and my grandchildren feel the same way, passionately! 
To be clear the Premium Energy people have announced that they will NOT proceed without the support of the local officials and communities. Therefore, if we are to take them at their word, all plans must be immediately halted and dismissed, since NO such support exists. They do NOT have local approval.

My objections are listed followed by elaborations. 

There has been inadequate notice regarding this to the officials, the communities, and the local agencies holding interests.
The FERC and Premium Energy have been ignoring the Constitutionality of these proposals. 
The tragic impact of these plans on the Catskill Park, with its Forever Wild protected status.
The environmental harm these proposals would accomplish.
The economic devastation on many of the towns and villages in the counties which stand to be affected.
The sacrifice to the quality of life for the citizens who call these areas HOME.
The unconscionable destruction of the habitat vital to the wildlife in these areas.
The Science and supporting documentation of the planned procedures are weak, indefensible, and illogical.

There has been inadequate notice regarding this to the officials, the communities, and the local agencies holding interests. The Supervisors of the affected towns were not given any reasonable notice, and only learned within mere days. Town Supervisors, Mayors, Councilmen, and Legislators were left without the necessary amount of time to examine these plans, and prepare responses. The DEC (Department of Environmental Conservation) was given no notice, and so reasonable, responsible discussions and considerations were missing! 

The FERC and Premium Energy have been ignoring the Constitutionality of these proposals. Such plans require Amendments to the New York State Constitution. FERC and Premium Energy have taken no steps to plan for or consider any legal amendment process. The Department of Energy reminds us that Sites 1 and Sites 2 must be avoided for projects such as this, according to our New York State Constitution.

The tragic impact of these plans on the Catskill Park, with its Forever Wild protected status, is unconscionably evil. Destruction of the entire way of life for so many areas and so many acres is not at all justified by any advantage they seek to accomplish regarding renewable water. Such goals, accomplishing renewable water sources, must not sacrifice the Catskills. In the hearts of anyone with a conscious, such endeavors would produce a sickening regret.

The environmental harm these proposals would accomplish is substantial. Our stunning landscapes must not be wiped out. The trees providing magnificent hills and mountains are sacred to us all. The many hiking trails in these areas provide such vital parts of our lives. The rivers, which provide home to our fish and many forms of recreation to our citizens are precious to us all. Fly fishing, swimming, canoeing, rafting, and boating are to be preserved at all costs. The ecology is a God-Given Gift, which must never be sacrificed!

The economic devastation on many of the towns and villages in the counties which stand to be affected is enormous. This area is a vibrant, thriving economic way of life to all our citizens. Tourism is a major industry providing jobs for all in every aspects of life. Every age group in the areas depends on, and enjoys, the many jobs and business opportunities Tourism offers. Parents raise their children through this industry, young people work hard to accumulate funds to pay tuition for college educations, and senior citizens are able to support themselves as they struggle to meet the challenges of retirement. Further, the TOURISTS themselves create many, many wonderful family memories. The Route known as 214, as a major travel route from Ulster County to Hunter. This provides travel access to and from the tourists’ destinations. Also, the ability of the towns and villages to sustain government would have a ridiculously painful effect as properties are removed from the Tax Base! We truly cannot abandon the economic realities.

The sacrifice to the quality of life for the citizens who call these areas HOME is IMPOSSIBLE to defend. The leisure time and recreational time our citizens enjoy is vital to the well-being and happiness. These communities are populated by hard-working, sincere people who need our environment for the emotional and spiritual benefits our land offers. Serenity and peace cannot be considered luxuries; rather they are necessities, insuring mental health and subsequent physical health. We need the hiking trails for exercise and awe in nature, the streams for our swimming, fishing, and boating experiences, and benefits of the prolific fresh produce available.

The unconscionable destruction of the habitat vital to the wildlife in these areas is absolutely out of the question! Protecting our wildlife is our sacred duty that, as human beings, we owe to the planet. Our deer population is wonderful, our many small animals that enjoy our fields and forests are delightful, and our birds provide visual wonder and lovely, soothing song. Our fish provide not only food, but a significant part of the legacy of the Catskills. We must protect the habitat!

The Science and supporting details of the planned procedures are weak, poorly designed and reckless.

I vehemently oppose these plans! Dismiss this matter now!
Dr. Adeline Basil

