

Anne E Glausen, Kingston, NY.
As a resident of New York with a home in the Ashokan Reservoir Territory and a supporter of the conservation of our fragile ecosystems, I oppose the Ashokan Pumped Reservoir Project in its entirety. This project will not only destroy neighborhoods and communities, it will also decimate our valuable ecosystems and the industries that rely on them, all while violating the constitution. The Ashokan Pumped Reservoir Project can not become a reality because it will end the reality and prosperity of the animals and people in the territory and the surrounding region.
The project is proposed within the Catskills Forest Preserve, with impacts on formally protected and ecologically valuable land. The U.S. Department of Energy itself has recognized that development on such lands should be avoided. The movement of water in pumped storage can affect the sediment regime and stream ecology, pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. This is of heightened concern, since excessive sediment is already a major issue affecting the Ashokan Reservoir and the quality of NYC’s unfiltered drinking water. The project would likely affect the 9.5 million residents of New York City and many Hudson Valley communities that rely on its drinking water. It also has significant implications on the health of the Esopus Creek and the communities on its banks, and to the communities that draw drinking water from the Hudson River. The region's trout industry would face extinction because the Esopus Creek is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters. Not only are the waters effected, but bird sanctuaries will be decimated and Preserved State Forest lands will be demolished. As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” The Preserve is 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasingly fragmented environment; the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”
This proposed project will destroy many communities such as the Town of Hunter, communities that have worked their entire lives to leave to the many future generations to thrive off of. This project will literally drown our neighbors' homes and businesses that have managed to grow without destroying what is left of the local lands and ecosystems. The proposal not only goes against our laws set forth to protect our land, but it goes against what the effected communities are willing to allow. This proposal can not be approved as it will kill more than it can create, it will destroy parts of this region and the surrounding area that can never be restored to as they are now.

