

Sara Ansari, New York, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I strenuously object to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydro-electric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. As a New York City resident and mother, I implore you to reject their permit request (Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056). This project has many flaws, including devastating the local environment and economy, but I beg you to focus on what I see as the most urgent issue--compromising the drinking water supply of 9.5 million people in New York City, including 17 month old babies like mine.

The Ashokan Reservoir where Premium Energy Holdings wants to build this power plant is a reservoir that provides unfiltered drinking water for 40% of New York City. Forty percent!! The Catskill Water Supply overall, the preserve within which they wish to build, provides us with 90% of our drinking water. It is the largest unfiltered drinking water supply in the nation. To say that the people of New York City depend on the safety and stability of this water supply is a gross understatement.

I grew up in Michigan, where the drinking water of many communities has been poisoned as the result of local, state and federal failures to protect it. The Flint water crisis is the most prominent example. Who suffers the most from poisoned or contaminated drinking water? Children do, and usually children of our most vulnerable communities--our poorest residents and communities of color. Building a power plant around New York City’s primary drinking water reservoir is an unacceptable risk to take. Children drink water, absorb water and whatever is in it through their skin while bathing, they eat food cleaned or boiled in water. Clean drinking water is essential for children’s brain development and physical health. It cannot be compromised, and that is exactly what this proposed project would do. Please deny Premium Energy’s request.

We do not want to repeat the Flint water crisis in New York City. Flint is a city of around 100,000 people. New York City is almost 100 times that. Imagine the potential catastrophic damage to our city, and in turn our public health and national economy if this project moves forward.

It is also important to highlight that this proposal ignores the fact that this land has been protected by the New York State Constitution since 1885 under Article XIV, which stipulates that the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” This proposal directly violates our state constitution.

I fully understand that we as a country will need to sacrifice some public land for the greater good as we move toward more renewable energy sources, but we cannot do it at the expense of clean drinking water for 9.5 million people, at the expense of millions and millions of children and babies like mine. This project needs to find a different site where the consequences to the general public are less devastating. 

Thank you for your time and your service,
Sara Ansari
301 East 78th Street, 18c
New York, New York 10075










