

Robert Brown, New York, NY.
Secretary Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426 
re: P-15056


Dear Secretary Bose,

I would like to express my opposition to docket # P-15056, Premium Energy's proposal to build a pumped storage hydroelectric plant that would use the Ashokan Reservoir as its lower reservoir and construct an upper reservoir in one of three proposed locations. While I am cognizant of the pressing need for and value of new hydroelectric plants for energy storage, I believe the Catskill Mountains are not the correct site for these plants to be built. I am a landowner in the Catskill Mountains, and unlike Premium Energy, am aware of the unique qualities of this highly preserved area.

The Catskill Forest Preserve was created in 1885 centered in Ulster County, with its protection as "forever wild" written into New York's state constitution. It has grown significantly since then, increasing the area of land that is highly protected and managed for biodiversity. The Forest Preserve's 700,000 acres of unfragmented wilderness provides increasingly valuable habitat in our fast-developing world. The area provides critical habitat to many species of birds, including NY-Species of Greatest Conservation Need black-throated blue warblers, scarlet tanagers, and wood thrushes, as well as NY-Special Concern raptors Cooper's hawk, red-shouldered hawk, and sharp-shinned hawk. It also provides some of the last good habitat for the NY-Special Concern eastern hognose snake and the NY-threatened timber rattlesnake. The Catkills provide summer foraging habitat for the NY-threatened northern long-eared bat. For these and other reasons, the entire area has been designated the Catskills Peaks Important Bird Area by the Audubon Society.

If these environmental considerations are not sufficient to render this proposal infeasible, the legal ramifications should be. The construction of any possible reservoir inside the "Blue Line" of the Catskill Forest Preserve would inevitably require the condemning of land in the State Forest Preserve, either for inundation or to reroute essential roads. But this is an act specifically prohibited in the state constitution. This would put New York State and FERC on a collision course to a lawsuit unlikely to be resolved before reaching the Supreme Court. In fact, a case currently before the Supreme Court, PennEast Pipeline v. NJ, hangs on the question of whether FERC can force the state of NJ to condemn state land via eminent domain in order to let a private company build a pipeline. And New Jersey state land is not even as highly protected as New York's. Yet Premium Energy seems to be basing their entire application on the unlikely passing of this future amendment to New York's constitution.

It is my understanding the Department of Energy specifically designates areas of high preservation, i.e. those accorded Status 1 or 2 in the USGS Gap Analysis Program, as to be avoided for new stream reach hydroelectric development. All state lands in the Catskill Forest Preserve are considered Status 2 according to the USGS.

I request that FERC uphold the DoE's own standards and reject Premium Energy's proposal for a preliminary license before this California company wastes any more money investigating it.

Sincerely yours,


Robert Brown

71 Warren Street #4
New York, NY 10007


