

Melody Troeger Sweet, Tully, NY.
FERC docket # P-15056-000
To the committee that determines the future of the Catskill Forest Preserve,

April 11, 2021

	I was greatly distressed when I heard about the plan to build a hydro-electric plant in the West Shokan and the Woodland Valley, in particular.  My family and I have been summer residents of Roxmor Colony in Woodland Valley since 1965.  I am VEHEMENTLY against the proposal put forth by Premium Energy Holdings to build a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity in the West Shokan area.   
	I understand that one of the proposed sites for a damned reservoir is Woodland Valley and it would affect historical structures, including the William L. Beach House and Roxmor Inn.  Built in 1914, the Roxmor community has applied to have this structure listed on the National Register of Historic places.  
	In the 1980’s Roxmor Colony was told that they would no longer be able to construct a temporary summer damn on the Woodland valley stream, which ran through their property and, eventually, into the Esopus Creek.  This small wooden damn was build every July, for the children.  It created a 5 foot (maximum) deep pool, about 20 x 60 feet, and water flowed freely over the top.  It was deconstructed annually, right after Labor Day.  They were told that, even though fish nibbled at the swimmers toes, this small temporary damn would have too great an impact on the regional stream ecology.  So, they respected the DEC policy and the stream was never altered again.  
	And NOW there is a proposal to permanently dam the stream in Woodland Valley.  I can’t believe it.  How could this happen?  Where is the DEC now?  This proposed project would have an extreme impact a highly preserved region of the Catskill Forest Preserve, considered Status 1 by the Department of Energy.  How could this project even be considered when Status 1 regions are to be “ avoided for development?”  
	And I am surprised that NYC, which receives 40% of their water from this watershed, is in favor of this proposed project location. 
	“The proposed project is massive, intrusive, and if constructed, likely to damage local lands, roads, and streams” and affect NYC’s drinking water.  Please DO NOT continue to consider this hydro-electric plant proposed by Premium Energy Holdings.

							Sincerely,

							Melody Troeger Sweet

