

Sara Babyatsky, New York, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose, 

Sara and Kelly are writing in response to the deeply concerning proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. Ms. Babyatsky holds a Master of Science degree in Applied Environmental Geoscience from Queens College and has been working as a geologist with environmental consulting firms for 8 years. Ms. Stefanski holds a Masters in Civil and Environmental Engineering from Cornell University where she studied water resource systems and has been working in the private and public water sector for 4 years. Ms. Stefanski also worked in EPA’s Region 2 Clean Water Division in NYC where she was involved with NYC’s Filtration Avoidance Determination (FAD) program. As professionals in this scientific community, we urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, due to the potential for environmental degradation and impacts on the highly preserved land and stream ecology within the watershed, and potential impacts to the quality and supply of New York City’s drinking water.

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. Destroying preserved land, a protected water system, and a habitat for federally protected species would set a harmful and dangerous precedent. 

In addition, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. Millions of laboratory tests in the City and the watershed show that water from these two systems continues to meet the stringent criteria set by the DOH to avoid filtration. FAD allowed NYC to avoid the construction of a $10 billion dollar filtration plant for its Catskill and Delaware supplies, with an upwards of $100 million to operate each year. The City is investing an estimated $1 billion dollars over the next decade to comply with the FAD by administering programs that protect the upstate reservoirs and the vast watershed lands that surround them. The filtration waiver emphasizes that New York City has some of the highest quality and best protected drinking water in the world. Protecting these waters at its source in the Catskill Mountains does not happen by accident. Nonprofits, government agencies and other watershed-based partners who administer the watershed protection programs continuously push toward the common goal of protecting the largest municipal water supply in the United States. This project would have devastating consequences that would disrupt the work that has been done over the last three decades to protect these waters and cost the City billions of dollars. 

Furthermore, Premium Energy states in the Application for Preliminary Permit that the “proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop. Aside from evaporation and percolation losses, the project’s water would stay within the system.” The Ashokan Reservoir is an integral part of the Catskill System and a significant portion of the New York City water supply. Premium Energy’s statement that the project’s water would stay within the system is false. Premium Energy’s proposed project is not a closed-loop system—it is in fact an “add-on”, using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir, and the pumping required for this project will increase turbidity within the Ashokan Reservoir and carry significantly higher risks. Premium Energy’s project does not meet the standards of innovation sought by the Department of Energy. As stated in FERC’s Guidance for Applicants Seeking Licenses or Preliminary Permits for Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Projects at Abandoned Mine Sites (Docket No. AD19-8-000): “A closed-loop pumped storage project is generally defined as a pumped storage project that utilizes reservoirs situated at locations other than natural waterways, lakes, wetlands, and other natural surface water features, and may rely on temporary withdrawals from surface waters or groundwater for the sole purpose of initial fill or the periodic recharge needed for project operation. Types of reservoirs that lend themselves to a closed-loop project include reservoirs located in surface mine pits or underground mines.” Closed-loop pumped storage projects have less significant environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. Premium Energy’s application is falsely characterizing this project as a “closed-loop” system. The economic risk and potential for a public health crisis is too high to consider use of the Ashokan Reservoir as the location of a pumped storage project. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

We hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources. 

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

Sincerely, 

Sara Babyatsky and Kelly Stefanski

