

Gardner Gillespie, Phoenicia, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
We are writing in opposition to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. We are part owners of an historic farm at 624 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia, NY, which would be covered up and destroyed by Premium Energy’s proposal. We urge FERC to decline its request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.
Whatever the value of renewable energy, it makes no sense to sacrifice the Catskill Forest Preserve to achieve results that could be achieved my much less disruptive and efficient means.  Article XIV of the NYS Constitution guarantees that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites rank among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be absurd public policy to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.
Even once construction was complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. Plus, Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.
In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities. Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.
Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. 
Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


Respectfully submitted,
/s/
Gardner and Antonia Gillespie
624 Woodland Valley Road,
Phoenicia, NY.  12464


