

Roberta Ziemba, Kingston, NY.
URGENT re: Ashokan Reservoir

APRIL 10 2021
Online submission - Motion to Intervene: Ashokan Pump Storage Project 
Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426

RE: MOTION TO INTERVENE Docket # P-15056 – Ashokan Pumped Storage Projecti
Dear Secretary Bose:
Please hear my plea to not allow this plan which I strongly feel would distrupt the animals that live in the Catskill region. I moved to this area 20 years ago and I want to advocate to preserve the land the fragile ecosystems. 

Pursuant to Rule 214 of the Rules, Practices and Procedures (18 CFR Section 385.314), Catskill Mountainkeeper, a non-profit organization with its primary office in Livingston Manor in Sullivan County New York and a satellite office in Woodstock in Ulster County New York, hereby petitions the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to grant it full party status in the above captioned proceeding. 

The persons to whom communications should be addressed and to whom service should be made are as follows:

Kathy Nolan, Senior Research Director PO Box 1081
Woodstock NY 12498 kathy@catskillmountainkeeper.org

Ramsay Adams, Executive Director PO Box 1000
Livingston Manor NY 12758 ramsay@catskillmountainkeeper.org

As grounds for this Motion, Catskill Mountainkeeper states as follows:
Catskill Mountainkeeper, a 501(3)(3) non-profit organization has a vital interest in the Preliminary Permit application submitted to the Commission by Premium Energy Holdings for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056). 

Catskill Mountainkeeper is a nationally recognized advocate for the Catskill region and works with a network of more than 40,000 concerned citizens and strategic partners to protect and promote our region’s extraordinary natural heritage, while promoting smart development that supports local communities. 

Catskill Mountainkeeper seeks to become a party to this proceeding to ensure the public interests of residents of Shandaken, Olive, communities near the Ashokan Reservoir, and residents of New York City are adequately represented. 

Our members stand at risk of serious harms from the construction and operation of the project, as well as from additional infrastructure necessary to service it, such as the Ashokan Switchyard, powerhouse, and transmission lines. 

Accordingly, Catskill Mountainkeeper has a substantial interest in this matter. No other party represents Catskill Mountainkeeper’s interests, and no other party reasonably could do so. 

Neither disruption to the proceedings nor any additional burden to any party will result from the granting of this Motion. In light of the foregoing, Catskill Mountainkeeper respectfully petitions for intervention. 

Ramsey Adams
Executive Director 
Catskill Mountainkeeper
and Roberta Ziemba 

