

Janet A Steen, West Shokan, NY.
I am writing regarding the proposal by Premium Energy of California (Docket #P-15056) to create a pumped storage hydro plant in the Moonhaw Valley of West Shokan, NY, a hamlet in the town of Olive in Ulster County. The proposal seeks to use the water of New York City's Ashokan Reservoir in combination with a new reservoir of some 250-300 acres that would sit above the Watson Hollow community, now the center of West Shokan.   
 

My neighbors and I understand the need for various kinds of renewable energy. However, the Premium Energy proposal is not the kind of hydropower that the Department of Energy wants. While claiming to be an environmentally sound "closed loop" project, it clearly is not – it is an “add on,” and likely to be much more environmentally destructive. So Premium is either being purposefully dishonest in its application or it doesn't know what a closed loop project is. Either way, an application with such a glaring "mistake" is not worthy of approval for further study.
 

The nonstop churning of Ashokan Reservoir water that would be caused by the proposed project would threaten and very likely reduce the quality of drinking water for 9.5 million residents downstate. Does anyone really believe that the pristine, unfiltered water that city residents now enjoy would be unchanged by such an ongoing assault on one of its principal water sources, with the enormous increase in turbidity and continual disturbance of the sediment at the bottom of the reservoir?
 

Also, as I understand, the plan as proposed will most likely use more energy than it produces. I know that part of the point is energy storage for peak times -- during which we've almost never had an issue here, partly because many see no need for air conditioning in the summer. But the enormity of the destruction to be caused by this proposal does not seem justified when there is unlikely to be a net increase in energy produced.
 

This is also an area where residents' options for making a living are already severely limited by the restrictions posed by being in the New York City watershed. Tourism is a major industry here, and to destroy a massive amount of the most beautiful land in the area, in addition to running high-tension wires for many miles -- from West Shokan to Kingston -- will not only change the character of the area but will surely reduce the incomes of many who depend on year-round visitors to survive financially. What will replace this income? Is there a plan for that? If there is, I haven't heard one.  

 
In addition, this is an area that is home to numerous species designated by New York to be of greatest need of conservation, including the red-shouldered hawk, the black-throated blue warbler, the scarlet tanager, the wood thrush, the timber rattlesnake, even the three birds orchid (which would be entirely destroyed by Premium Energy’s project)...the list goes on and on.

 
The area also includes lands that, according to the New York State Constitution, “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

 
West Shokan has already been destroyed once, during the building of the Ashokan Reservoir early in the 20th century. But the people here are close enough to their recent ancestors that the grief remains from that first displacement. Will they be forced to endure a second destruction of West Shokan?
  

Obviously, this is where I live, I love where I live, and I don't want it to be destroyed. It would be silly to pretend otherwise. But the flaws in Premium Energy's plan are so significant and clear that this issue goes far beyond the not-in-my-backyard scenario. With such a great need for beneficial projects that wisely achieve what they set out to do, time and money and energy should be spent on a better proposal than Premium Energy's.
 

Thank you for your consideration.

Janet Steen

