

Casey Helman, Upper Marlboro, MD.
Comment in Opposition to FERC Docket No. P-15056-000


Regarding Premium Energy’s preliminary permit application affecting my family’s property in Phoenicia, NY, I write in opposition.  Premium Energy (PE) has applied for a pumped storage plant near the Ashokan Reservoir in direct violation of New York State Constitution and the Constitution of the United States regarding protected land of the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

While I understand the need to devise green energy solutions, I do not believe that flooding large portions of multiple protected nature preserves and displacing countless species of great ecological importance is a responsible method.

The Catskill Forest Preserve is part of the largest region of protected wilderness this side of the Mississippi River and the rights of the preserve, enshrined in New York State Constitution Article 14, Section 1 in 1894, prohibit being sold or leased by a public or private corporation.  Additionally, PE also proposes to use land in the Catskill Park area which, though separate from the Catskill Forest Preserve, is protected by state law.  These areas represent habitats for plant and animal species on New York’s “threatened”, “special concern”, or “greatest conservation need” designations, such as the bog orchid and three different hawk species. 

PE faces a costly and uphill legal battle to the construction of this plant that proposes to destroy the ecosystem around it.  The public referendum campaign waged by opposition to this project will undoubtedly point out the potential that the project will meddle with public drinking water in the NY watershed, could cause multiple species of wildlife to become extinct, and would displace thousands of residents in the area.   The legal protective status of this area and the requirements for encroaching on the public land (consecutive legislative sessions and voter referendum) should clearly demonstrate that this is not an acceptable location for this initiative.

