

Judith Moss, PRATTSVILLE, NY.
Judith Moss
11662 Route 23A
Prattsville, NY 12468

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE, Rm 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

April 10, 2021

Docket number P-15056-000

Ashokan Proposal to FERC for a Pumped Storage Add-On* Project in the Catskill State Forest Preserve


Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in support of a denial of a preliminary application by Premium Energy docket number P-15056, to build a pumped storage add-on in the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

The fact that the application by Premium Energy is misrepresenting itself in order to be eligible for streamlined approval by labeling the pump storage project as a “closed loop” rather than an “add-on” project is in itself grounds for dismissing the application. The Premium Energy project takes water from the upper reservoir and adds on to an existing lower reservoir while the application makes a case for a “closed loop” project. Premium Energy misrepresents itself from the get -go and the application should be rejected out of hand on this basis alone.

Furthermore, the environmental and ecological impact on the surrounding area concerns me greatly. The effect of altering the sediment has profound consequences for breeding trout and the cultivation of the valuable trout habitat. Additionally, all the proposed reservoir areas are important bird areas. Altering the habitat and enduring widespread construction over an extended period of time would be highly detrimental to the birds, fish, and the wildlife in the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Moreover, since the Ashokan Reservoir provides 40% of New York City’s water, it is inconceivable to me that New York City would fail to protect a most valuable asset. With the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, NYC takes the protection, safety, quality, and sustainability of its water supply very seriously. The Ashokan Reservoir has extensive security in order to ensure the safety and quality of the water flowing down to New York City. I have been stopped by the police for taking a wrong path in the area around the Ashokan – protection of the water supply is a big job and a big deal. Monitoring of the premises is extensive. I cannot imagine that NYC would agree to allow a private company to come into the heavily protected Catskill Preserve and endanger the quality and safety of the water for 9.5 million New Yorkers. 

Although generally, I support green and sustainable energy initiatives, this application by Premium Energy is deceptive, destructive, and damaging to the Catskills. The proposed project threatens NYC drinking water, wildlife, local businesses and revenue from tourism, people's homes, as well as the one hundred year old Catskill Preserve which is constitutionally protected by NewYork State law.

I humbly ask you to consider all my reasons along with countless others who feel as passionately as I do and have also submitted their own reasons to protest this ill-conceived project by Premium Energy. There are very few arguments to be made in support of this project. In fact, I would like to be made aware of the rationale and reasons in support of this project and would appreciate any information on exactly why Premium Electric thinks that it is a good idea to come into protected land and water and mess it up.  In light of the overall negative impact on the Catskill area, I urge you strongly to reject the application from Premium Electric.

Thank you for your time.

Best regards,

Judith Moss


