

Sabrina B Taylor, West Shokan, NY.
4/11/2021
Sabrina Taylor
23 Waldorf Ct 
Brooklyn NY, 11230
thenightowlbaker@hotmail.com
718 233 7574

Kimberly Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket Number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

How shocking and upsetting it is to have to respond to the proposal made by Premium Energy Holding. It is shocking that they would want to build a hydro electric power plant in the highly protected Catskill Preserve. It’s upsetting that the many people, agencies and local governments in this region were uninformed and ignored by the Premium Energy Holdings Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

I strongly urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities and their economies, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

I understand that for now pumped storage and hydroelectric projects will be a component in our countries transition to renewable energy. In my opinion more research and innovation must be done to provide for better more effective systems for renewable energy. It is so important that our countries transition to renewable energy not come at the expense of the valuable resources we currently hold dear. Environmental and community devastation for an expensive net consumer of energy and methane gas producing project does not seem like a smart trade off.

Ashokan Pumped Storage Project by Premium Energy is not a closed loop system, as they claim in their proposal. It is in fact an Add-on. This is a system not recommended in the DOE’s own guidelines. This system would interconnect with the Ashokan watershed and it’s tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc with nearby stream ecology on both land and aquatic habitats. The Ashokan Pumped storage project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills most vital trout breeding waters and a key creek feeding the Ashokan Reservoir. It would also obliterate the Wittenberg Creek a wild trout breeding area. The Ashokan Reservoir supplies 40% of the water supply for NYC. It is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation and is NYC most valuable capitol asset. It would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable commodity that represents 1.7 Billion dollars in investments since the 1990’s
We must speak for the trees and in the Catskills we have. The Catskill forest Preserve created in 1885 is status 1 protected land. 700,000 acres protected under article X1V of the New York State constitution. It is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold ,or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

The forest in and around the proposed sites ranks among the 1% of forest habitats region wide. The US government and the NYS and City government  have spent millions of dollars to maintain and preserve these highly precious lands. We are in a struggle to save our planet from environmental catastrophe and the remaining forests are a lifeline in this effort. It is illogical for FERC to even consider projects of this order of magnitude without careful review of the pros and cons of such a venture.  

In addition to the negative effects on the water supply and environment, 33 towns and Native lands were already sacrificed to build the Ashokan Reservoir. Once again homes and private property would be seized by eminent domain. New housing would be hard to come by as there is a housing shortage in Ulster county, and due to the Covid 19 crisis there has been a buying frenzy leaving even less inventory available. The negative effect on the Catskills growing tourism economy would be enormous. 17% of employment come from this sector and Ulster County represents 43%. This is a 1.6 billion dollar industry supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premiums Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills and decrease the areas natural beauty. Trucks on the roadways, construction and chaos will dampen tourism throughout the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster county and beyond.

My hope is that Premium Energy will be able to find a more suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project, and that FERC will continue to innovate green energy alternatives. Projects where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities and threaten incredibly important resources for our planet.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P1-15056.

Sincerely,


Sabrina Taylor



