

Joel Riklin, Bethesda, MD.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street
Washington DC 20426

Docket P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose

I am Joel Riklin. I currently live in Bethesda, MD, where I have lived for almost 20 years.  Prior to living in Bethesda, I lived for about 25 years in Hartford, CT area.  I began my life in the New York City area, primarily Yonkers, NY.  

I am writing to you to urge you to reject the deeply flawed proposal submitted by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Mountains.

This proposal by Premium Energy offers three possible locations for the pump storage all within the Catskill Forest Preserve.  This is a valuable recreation area that I like many residents of the New York City metropolitan have enjoyed for many years.  I have particularly enjoyed camping and hiking for many years in the Woodland Creek Valley, one of three sites proposed for the pump storage reservoir.  I have also hiked in the Stony Clove area, another possible location for the pump storage reservoir.  I continued to visit the area to hike and enjoy the natural environment while a resident of the Hartford, CT area and, although I currently live much further away I still vacation in the area.  

The destruction of such a valuable forest and recreation land should be sufficient reason to deny this proposal for a preliminary permit.  Moreover, The proposed sites are on designated Status 1 land, and federal policy (the Department of Energy) explicitly directs that Status 1 and 2 land areas are highly protected and must be avoided for development.  Furthermore, the Catskill Forest Preserve is protected by the New York State constitution.  Under Article XIV of the constitution it is guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold or exchanges, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Thus, this proposal would require a Constitutional Amendment passed by the NYS Legislature and signed by the Governor. The inconsistency with Federal policy and significant NYS legal hurdle are clear reasons to stop the proposal now.

In addition the destruction of valuable forest and recreational resources, the proposed project will severely disrupt and increase turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding streams, which serve as a primary source of unfiltered drinking water for 9 million New York residents.

I recognize the need for our nation and world to transition to green-energy sources. However, this proposed effort is not a green-energy effort. It will destroy important wilderness areas, negatively affect wildlife, and negatively impact the drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers.

I urge you, as a responsible public official, to reject the Premium Energy Proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.    

Joel Riklin


