

Joanne Flynn Black, Phoenicia, NY.
Re: Premium Energy for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056:000)

We are the Woodland Community Association which covers over 200 homes in the hamlet of Woodland Valley, in the town of Shandaken, Ulster County, New York.

We’ve held several meetings with our Association to review and discuss the Premium Energy for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056:000) There is an overwhelming opposition to this project.

We have read your proposal and strongly believe that this should not be completed because of the following reasons:

Provides 90% of NYC’s water 

Water supply provides 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people.

The largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, built at the cost of displacing 25 communities.

Will the “ public good” be served when the public harm of this project is weighed against the so-called benefit in terms of providing possible, but not certain, cheaper energy. 

Specifically, the projected limited energy benefit does not justify taking and rendering inaccessible the amount of property that will need to be taken and the impact on the use of State recreational land. 

Eminent domain may not be used to take the property of the landowners in Woodland Valley, so that a private, for profit corporation, can build and profit from this pumping storage project. 


Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild
forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

The historic Woodland Valley campground, built by the Civilian Conservation Corps in the early 1930s, is one of the state’s oldest campgrounds; the caretaker’s cabin is listed in Ulster County NY: The Architectural History and Guide.

According to the DEC’s most recent Use Management Plan (1994), the campground has 70 campsites and is used by over 5400 campers and at least 2600 day use visitors annually.

Serves as the trailhead for two of the area’s most popular trails, the Slide-Wittenberg trail and the Woodland Valley-Denning trail.

Woodland Valley Creek is a popular fishing destination, containing cutlips minnow, blacknose dace, longnose dace, sculpin, brook trout, brown trout, rainbow trout, and white sucker 

Woodland Valley Creek is a trout breeding ground 

Two historic structures listed in “Ulster County NY Architectural History and Guide” are in the proposed inundation area 

William L. Beach House, built 1852, occupied by landscape painter Thomas Craig (1849-1925) 

The Roxmor Inn, built 1914-15, visited by John Burroughs 


We want to understand whether this Federal Agency is authorized under the Federal Constitution and Federal law to overrule the NYS Constitution and the protection of State property declared forever wild. 

Thanks for considering our comments


