

Mary Ann Shepard, West Shokan, NY.
As a resident of Olive, one of the towns that is being proposed by Premium Energy Holdings as a site for a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity, I vigorously object to the proposal and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny Premium Energy Holding’s application for a preliminary permit. The proposed project is massive, intrusive, and if constructed, likely to damage local lands, roads, and streams and to cause increased turbidity in waters serving as an unfiltered drinking water source for millions. Please do everything in your power to prevent this proposal from moving forward.
The project is proposed within the Catskills Forest Preserve, with impacts on formally protected and ecologically valuable land. The pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.The U.S. Department of Energy itself has recognized that development on such lands should be avoided.
The proposal call for the movement of water into the Ashokan Reservoir. This reservoir is a primary source of drinking water for New York City. The movement of water in pumped storage can affect the sediment regime and stream ecology. This is of heightened concern, since excessive sediment is already a major issue affecting the Ashokan Reservoir and the quality of NYC’s unfiltered drinking water. The project would likely affect the 9.5 million residents of New York City.  It also has significant implications on the health of the Esopus Creek and the communities on its banks, and to the communities that draw drinking water from the Hudson River where the Esopus flows into.

Due to the devastating effects this proposal will have on our area, I urge you to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
Sincerely,
Mary Ann Shepard
West Shokan, NY

