

Lize Mogel, Brooklyn, NY.
To the Commission:

I am a resident of New York City and I also develop education programs in the Catskills about New York City’s drinking water supply. There are several important reasons why the Premier Energy filing should not move forward:

First, it will impact a major part of the water supply of the City of New York. The Ashokan Reservoir is a terminal reservoir. More than 40% of the City’s water supply is stored here before it moves through the Catskills Aqueduct down to the City. The water supply is one of the best-protected and managed in the United States, and interference with it will negatively affect water quality and the City’s ability to control its management.

Second, the project will impact parts of the Catskills State Preserve, which is constitutionally-protected land. It provides crucial wildlife habitat and corridors, accessible and unique recreational opportunities in the region, and is the foremost economic driver for the region as well. The project will impact people’s ability to access this land, as well as impact wildlife and forests. 

Third, any of the project’s proposed reservoir sites will displace long-time communities, in a region where eminent domain used to create the NYC water system still has generational impacts. 

There is already a carefully developed, delicate balance in the Catskills between the needs of key stakeholders, including 9.5 million water consumers in New York City, Catskills residents and business owners, more than half a million visitors to the region each year, wildlife and forests, the City of New York, and the State of New York. Premier Energy’s proposal would radically disrupt this balance, for a project that is clearly speculative, and has, at this point, no market for the energy produced, no investors, and no support whatsoever from any local stakeholders. 

I would also like to comment on the FERC filing process itself. Through this process, Premier Energy is able to lay claim to a critical part of a region that the company’s principals have most likely never visited, and that they clearly have not done even basic research on. The potential negative impacts as described above are extreme.

While we desperately need to find solutions to our dependence on fossil fuels, these should not come at the cost of important physical and natural infrastructure, as well as people’s lives and livelihoods. Sustainable energy solutions should be developed in collaboration with communities from the start, not forced upon them with little recourse except lengthy legal battles. The FERC process as it stands, to allow exploratory projects without any requirement of basic community support, opens the door to predatory practices, as is evidenced by the Premier Energy filing. 

Thank you for your consideration.


