

Susan Hereth, Kingston, NY.
For the following reasons, I am 100% OPPOSED to the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage  Project proposal , Docket #  P-15056-000 and appeal to FERC to deny any further permitting of this application: 
Premium Energy provided false information on their application. The proposal is being made for vast areas of land WITHIN the Catskill Forest Preserve, a New York State designated state park and protected forests. The forest within Premium Energy's proposal is ranked among the top 1% in the NYS Forest Condition Index. 
The Catskill Forest Preserve, which the Premium Energy Proposal falls within, is considered Status 1 land through USGS analysis, which is identified as to be "avoided for development." Any changes to land management with the Catskill Forest Preserve require a constitutional amendment in the State of New York. 
Premium Energy's proposal for the Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Hydro Storage would destroy highly preserved ecosystems, both aquatic and terrestrial. The proposal to  build a reservoir, tunnels, and transmission lines would destroy intact forests, riparian zones, wetlands, and other habitats that would have detrimental impacts on multitudes of species such as protected and important fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, birds, and plants.
The path of the proposed 800mw (the Premium Energy website also mentions 230kw lines) transmission lines crosses NYS protected wetlands. There is at least one NYS-regulated Freshwater wetland AS-10 (Class 2) that the transmission lines are shown crossing according to Premium Energy's proposal. The wetland located at Stone Church Road is an important wetland for migratory waterfowl and other birds, species such as Bald Eagles, Green Heron, and Great Blue Heron, and Kingfishers, as well as home to beaver, otter, turtles, frogs, and more. 
The path of the proposed transmission lines would destroy intact forests and open up an invasive species corridor that would be the death knell of the State protected lands and species of concern (ex: raptors, song birds, bats, and orchids)
The path of the transmission lines crosses farmland in Hurley that is currently producing food that is feeding 1000s of New Yorkers experiencing food insecurity and supporting the food system during the pandemic.
The Ashokan Pumped Storage proposal would negatively impact the economic viability of the County by damaging the tourism sector. Pre-COVID pandemic numbers indicate the tourism industry of Ulster County creates 20,000 jobs, an approximate annual industry of $684 million (in 2019). 
The open-loop, add-on system proposed by Premium Energy is not a proposal that the Federal Government should want to support because of the damage that will be done to the lower reservoir which serves as a drinking water source for over 9 million people. The Premium Energy proposal would negatively impact the drinking water of over 9,000,000 New Yorkers. The turbidity and water fluctuations created by this proposal would also negatively impact important trout habitats and breeding grounds.
Turbidity impacts from discharge into the lower Esopus Creek would negatively impact aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems for over an additional 20 miles. The lower Esopus Creek flows out of the Ashokan Reservoir and travels through the Towns of Marbletown, Hurley, Kingston, Ulster, Saugerties, and the City of Kingston. The Esopus Creek discharges into the Hudson River in the Town of Saugerties, an important East Coast estuary, that provides habitat to threatened species for 150 miles of its tidal estuary. 
Premium Energy's Ashokan proposal for pumped storage has negative impacts on more towns and entities than listed in its application. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Proposal would negatively impact the following towns: Hunter, Olive, Shandaken, Marbletown, and Hurley. The land and aquatic ecosystems that would be impacted are under jurisdiction of the above mentioned towns as well as NYS DEC as well as NYC DEP. None of the listed towns or entities were, or have been, contacted prior to Premium Energy's application. 
Culturally and historically as a region, the lands within Premium Energy's Ashokan Pumped Storage facility and transmission lines, were home to indigenous peoples since the last Ice Age retreated 12,000 years ago as well as enslaved Africans during the 1700s and 1800s. Premium Energy's project would destroy cultural and historically important sacred sites.
As a region, the lands that Premium Energy has proposed for their project have a 12,000 year history Indigenous peoples' living across, and stewarding, the entirety of the landscape - from the shores of the Hudson River, across the floodplains, valleys, hills, and lowlands, into the peaks of the Catskill Mountains.  The Ashokan Pumped Storage project and transmission lines would destroy extensive Indigenous sacred sites, shelters, traditional migratory pathways, and encampments. 
With a deep history of enslaved Africans working and living (1700s-1800s) on the agricultural lands that fall within Premium Energy's Ashokan proposal for transmission lines, any work done within the agricultural land and surrounds would destroy sacred burial grounds holding the remains of enslaved Africans. 

Lastly, there should be no foreign investors or investment in United States domestic energy grid projects. I have read that Premium Energy has had foreign investors in previous projects. As a matter of National security, all domestic energy projects should be domestically owned and financed. 
Premium Energy's application's deficiencies are tremendous and can not be corrected. Given the above stated detrimental impacts to an intact forested State preserve, aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, economic industry, and cultural and historic aspects, the Premium Energy Ashokan Pumped Storage Proposal Docket #  P-15056-000 should be denied any future permitting or applications. The Ashokan Pumped Storage proposal # P-15056-000 should NOT proceed. 

