

Sarah Galbraith, High Falls, NY, NY.
The premise of Premium Energy Holdings (PEH) proposed pumped storage facility in New York’s Catskill Mountains is to create a sustainable "green" energy storage facility.   Project P-15056 couldn't be further from sustainable.  Habitat destruction in the name of "green" energy is anything but sustainable.  I ask that FERC reject this proposal and not issue a permit for its construction, now or in the future.
In the early 1900s, New York State's Catskill Park Preserve was established by a New York State constitutional decree.  All three of PEH's alternate reservoir sites are situated within the Catskill Park's boundaries. Their construction would destroy and inundate hundreds of acres of valuable habitat, and irreparably altered more in constructing the needed electrical lines to move the generated electricity to existing transmission lines.    More than a century ago, the New York State legislature recognized the value of protecting and conserving land and habitat for future generations.  Today scientists in the fields of ecosystem management and climate change know that preserving natural ecosystems is the most efficient protection against further atmospheric warming.  Healthy, unaltered ecosystems store carbon, preventing it from entering the atmosphere, while destroying intact natural areas releases carbon and reduces the absorption capacity.  Severely damaging a legally protected natural area in the name of "sustainable energy" demonstrates Premium Energy Holdings' utter lack of understanding of how best to address our changing energy needs and preventing further climate change.  Protecting nature is the best, easiest, cheapest climate strategy we have.
There are additional problems with Proposal P-15056.  The land and waterways within this area were already seized once by eminent domain in order to build the Ashokan Reservoir.   Approximately 2000 people had their land, homes, and businesses taken and flooded; entire towns were abandoned to the depths of the new reservoir.  Those emotional scars have not healed a century later.  If the pumped storage facility is allowed, more families will be permanently displaced by Premium Energy Holdings.   Should we allow history to repeat itself?   
The Ashokan Reservoir provides clean, unfiltered drinking water to 9.5 million people, most of whom live in New York City.  This is made possible by the thousands of acres of preserved forests in the Catskills.  They create a natural filtration system for the precipitation that falls on the slopes of the Catskills before entering the Ashokan Reservoir.  The PEH proposed pumped storage facility puts this drinking water source at high risk with the potential to move unpredictable amounts of water and suspended sediments from the proposed storage reservoir into the Ashokan.  
Lastly, this past year has brought The Catskill region back into the spotlight.  People have sought refuge and solace in the outdoors.  Tourism in the region has soared, pumping much needed tourist spending into the local economy.  The region has been rediscovered.   Yet, a company located 3000 miles away, with no connection to the region, want to put this in jeopardy, first scarring the land, then flooding it, destroying vital habitat to unique plants, important bird breeding habitat, and vital spawning grounds for threatened brook trout - a victim of the warming climate PEH claims to be helping.  The Catskills are a gem, to be preserved as "Forever Wild" for all of humanity just like the NY State legislators realized a century ago.  
Please reject the permit application for P-15056-0000. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Sarah Galbraith

