

Nicholas Arbatsky, Phoenicia, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,

As a resident and long-term property owner in Woodland Valley in the Town of Shandaken, I strongly object to Premium Energy Holding’s proposal and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny their application for a preliminary permit. My family’s home valley is under proposed consideration as a site for a large dam, reservoir, turbine, and tunnels for use in pumped storage and the generation of electricity.  The proposed project is an unprecedented large-scale disruption to the Catskill Forest Preserve, and if constructed, likely to damage local lands, wildlife, and streams causing increased turbidity to the waters that provide an unfiltered drinking water source for over nine million people in the New York City area. Over the last 27 years my family has adhered to the development restrictions that protect New York City’s drinking water and I question how the magnitude of Premium Energy Holding’s proposed project can safely address the mandates set forth by New York’s Department of Conservation to protect the water quality in our area.  My family owns three properties in Woodland Valley that will be flooded by Premium Energy Holding’s dam proposal and I’m concerned that the Town of Shanadken will be rendered uninhabitable to the majority of middle class families due to the loss of tax revenue generated from all the properties that will be destroyed in Woodland Valley.  

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources cannot come at the cost of environmental and community devastation.  I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project where the construction and operation do not destroy protected wilderness, displace thriving communities, and threaten the Catskill’s unique natural resources.  Please do everything in your power to prevent the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project proposal, docket number P-15056-000 from moving forward. 


