

Erika Karl, Brooklyn, NY.
Hello,

This is in reference to docket P-15056. I would like to voice my concerns and dismay with the proposed West Shokan hydro-electric pump storage pump. First, let me start by describing myself as someone who both lives in New York City, and am also familiar with the friends and family of people who live in Olive and on Moonhaw Road in particular. 

I find it appalling that a company based in California could come out to a New York Forest Reserve and create a project that would disrupt and destroy parts of a nature reserve and a community they have nothing to do with, other than to make money for themselves.This plan is obviously not well thought out. 

First, the concept alone is faulty. Using more energy to pump water up a mountain in order to create less energy is not a good idea. Granted, it is cheaper to pump while the price of energy is lower, but there has to be a better way. Technically, this way of generating energy still uses more energy than it creates. Also, when it comes to touting pumped water as a “green” energy source, I don’t think it really is. When an energy project destroys or disrupts the surrounding ecosystem, can we please say that this is no longer a “green” energy source? Faulty!

Second, the project is going to use the Ashokan Reservoir, a main water supply for New York City. Why mess around with this reservoir at all? If anything… anything at all goes wrong, the water supply for NYC, which is New York State’s main cash-cow of a city, could be in jeopardy. Heck, NYC is a major money-generator for the rest of the nation, don’t mess with it! 

Third, and most importantly, did this company from California take any time to read into the history of how the Ashokan Reservoir came to be? There still is bad juju because of  how they removed whole towns and communities, steeped in historic importance, in order to provide a water supply for New York City. How tone-deaf can this project be? How thoughtless to rip up once again, the re-located and in some cases, destroyed historic towns of the Catskills for this project? This may in fact put in jeopardy the Ashokan Reservoir itself! What was the point of building this massive reservoir if some greedy company sneaks in and ruins it for this ridiculous way to generate power?!

I whole heartedly oppose and am dismayed by this project. I stated 3 points of why I am opposed, but there are also so many more reasons that I can’t even touch the surface of describing… like the impact on the nature reserve that is so precious to maintain and once gone, it can’t be put back.  Please put an end to this faulty and thoughtless project. 

Sincerely,
Erika Karl

