

Sara Muskulus, Glendale, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in the Catskill Mountains in New York. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

I have been a part-time resident of the Catskills, specifically Prattsville and Roxbury, for over seven years. I have seen first hand the devastation the hurricanes, such as Irene, have brought to the neighboring towns. I have witnessed the displacement, the impact on the economy, and the havoc it brought to the environment. Hurricanes, however, are acts of nature and mostly unpredictable.

What this project is proposing to do would be equally disastrous. Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which are destructive to both aquaIc and land habitats. This could potentially flood the town, yet again. Not to mention, altering the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and part of the NYC water supply. It will also interfere with the breeding territory of the trout.

The lack of concern for displacing the families in the town is also disconcerting. These towns are already suffering economically. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would have a difficult time securing new housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County, and for homes that are available, prices are through the roof. Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain and otherwise lessen tourism in the region, negatively impacting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

I agree that we must find greener, more sustainable ways of souring energy, but it should not come at the cost of displacing families, destroying the environment, and tampering with the water supply. 

I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project. Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Sara



