

Dafne DeJesus, West Shokan, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant at the Ashokan Reservoir in New York’s Catskill Mountains. The 1906-1915 creation of the  Reservoir demolished homes and businesses, rerouted roads, railroads, and waterways. Like the reservoir water we don't have access to, now we are being threatened again with upheaval, for energy we also won't have access to. You may not be aware that the relocated community of Boiceville is currently undergoing many parcels being leveled in the economic center of the Town of Olive as ﬂoodwaters entering the Reservoir often back up into Boiceville, submerging the ﬁre-station and threatening the only grocery store. Construction of a power plant and secondary reservoir will add yet another source of hardship to our communities that have already sacriﬁced so much in the name of NYC water. Allowing the proposed hydroelectric plant to be built will destroy what is left of our mountain towns, and the environmental impacts will again continue for decades, if not centuries. 

The residential center of West Shokan, where I live, is near Moonhaw Road, which is mentioned as a potential power plant and reservoir site. Trout run in the pristine Bush Kill Stream across the street from me, and approximately 120 avian species, including American Bald Eagles, Blue Herons, Mergansers, and dozens of other water and migratory songbirds use West Shokan as breeding grounds and as a year round habitat. Nearby Maltby Hollow Brook and Dry Brook waterways also feed down to the Esopus. West Shokan is a lush natural paradise that is home to everything from Black Bears, Bobcat, and Red and Grey Foxes, to Great Horned Owls, Grouse, Woodcocks, and the rare Bicknell's Thrush; regionally rare and protected species such as Timber Rattlesnakes, spotted and wood turtles, and spotted salamanders also live here. Lastly, these mountains and valleys are home to rare native plant species such as Three Birds Orchid, several varieties of Lady Slipper Orchids, and American Ginseng. 

Also in this area, at the end of Moonhaw Road, are New York State trailheads for Balsam Cap and Friday Mountains; Nearby are trailheads for Peekamoose and Table Mountains, as well as Ashokan High Point and the Kanape Brook trails. The proposed project would completely cut off accessibility to these vital trails used by locals and tourists alike. There are dozens of homes in and around the our Valley and other adjacent areas of West Shokan that will be lost, and due to the current housing crisis in Ulster County, much less in Olive - there is nowhere for us to relocate, even if affordable homes were available - there is a lack of housing, and the prices of homes have skyrocketed since the pandemic to a well over 46% increase. Because of the nature of the terrain, and that we live within the Catskill Forest on Federally deemed Forever Wild Lands, we cannot even build new homes, even if that were somehow an affordable option; proximity to the tributaries that run through West Shokan to the Ashokan Reservoir is also a hindrance in many cases in that nothing can be built or installed septic wise lest it taint the water that supplies the reservoir. Lastly, West Shokan, Chichester, and Woodland Valley all sit within the Onteora School District. This rural school district that has seen a steady decline since the loss of IBM in nearby Kingston in the 90s, which provided steady income for many people in the community. We are already on the verge of having to make severe budgetary decisions about keeping as many of the 5 schools that operate in this district from Kindergarten through 12th grade. It is a massive district that encompasses approximately 300 square miles, serving 45,000 residents in the townships of Shandaken, Olive, Woodstock, and West Hurley. Any major upheaval like this proposal in this community would mean not only loss of homes for our families, but would be a huge slash to our taxpayer base. Onteora would have to be re structured, schools closed, and hundreds of students left in the balances. It is an impractical, inequitable, and financially and social-emotionally unsound way to provide for our children's futures.

In closing, there is nothing natural about the existing Ashokan Reservoir nor the proposed hydroelectric plant and supplemental reservoir. Our mountain hamlets and in many cases, 7 generations of families, already have born and continue to bear the brunt and hurt of generational trauma over the construction of the Ashokan Reservoir, and now that is being triggered again by the possibility of it happening all over again for a project that in no way benefits our close knit community or pristine environment. The creation of the Catskill Forest Preserve is protected in the New York State Constitution which states that such lands shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private. Please, do not allow a new round of destruction and upheaval in the name of progress and green energy-displacing hundreds of families and countless species of federally protected, endangered, and rare species of flora and fauna is not the way to push forward. Please consider the vast consequences from this poorly thought out proposal along with its lack of transparency to the communities who will be directly impacted.

Thank you in advance for your consideration, 

Dafne DeJesus, resident of West Shokan, Town of Olive, NY


