

Henry F Ayres, Tannersville, NY.
Mr. Bruce Johnson, President, & Dr. Caryl Clark, Director of Heritage
The Onteora Club
5 Minwawa Road
PO Box 546
Tannersville, NY 12485

To: FERC representatives:	

Re: FERC project and sub-docket number: P-15056-000 

We are writing on behalf of the Board of Directors of the Onteora Club to register our opposition to the proposed Premium Energy Ashokan Pumped Storage Plan. We have carefully reviewed the Plan to create a pumped storage hydroelectric plant on the Ashokan Reservoir. We have concluded that it is flawed and ill-conceived, and that it contains much misinformation. 

Premium Energy state they’re proposing a closed-loop system. What they propose, however, is an add-on system. The proposal is very misleading on this point, which suggests other inaccuracies. The Ashokan Reservoir, which is divided into an upper and lower reservoir as part of its filtration system for New York City’s water, is fed by the Schoharie Reservoir and the Esopus Creek. Far from being a closed system, this interconnected water system functions efficiently as a flow-through system to supply nearly half of the City’s water supply. The potential for this development to interfere with New York City’s filtration system and famously clean water supply is very high. The reservoir and surrounding area also support important fish and wildlife habitats, which are important to our entire membership as well as the surrounding communities. To interrupt this delicate balance would wreak havoc on the habitats of many protected species. 

The Catskills Forest Preserve, within which the historic Onteora Club resides, was created in 1885 to support and maintain the pristine forest growth and wildlife habitat of the region. As Status 1 lands under the United States Geological Survey, the Catskills Forest Preserve are protected and meant to be defended to the fullest extent possible from significant development. An upper reservoir on any one of the three proposed sites would have a devasting ecological impact, destroying trout streams and spawning areas, and causing considerable and unnecessary damage to one of the most important natural environments in the state. It would also compromise the environmentally-minded tourism industry that provides a vital source of local employment in a part of the state with few other options. 

Although we support the objective to create more renewable power, we urge you to decline this particular application, and explore other less vulnerable sites. Premium Energy’s plan should not be allowed to advance further. 

Thank you for your consideration.						 

Bruce Johnson						Caryl Clark 


