

Jen Brueckner, West Shokan, NY.
April 11, 2021

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426
The FERC project and sub-docket number: P-15056:000

Dear Ms.  Bose,

    Please consider denying the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings of California to build a hydroelectric power plant at the Ashokan Reservoir, Town of Olive, Ulster County, in New York’s Catskill Mountains. We know hydroelectric storage pump plants will happen now and in the future to help meet green initiative goals for developing and maintaining our growing needs for energy utilizing renewable resources.  Adding hydro storage pump systems does make a lot of sense for NY to meet our goals. We are about 100 miles north of New York City and the current reservoir is part of the New York City water supply system which serves over 9 million people.  The NYC Department of Environmental Protection has expanded its precinct, officers and worked hard to protect it’s watershed by a land acquisition program.  It looks practical from a map perspective of the reservoir to use the existing water to turn the turbines with a building of a reservoir from one of the mountain sites proposed, but the mountainous areas have been protected by the state and the city for over 100 years.
     We are all aware of the new green energy and the federal funding used to promote hydroelectric.  It is supposed to have less of an impact on the environment, but when land is flooded to create a reservoir, a necessary step in building some hydroelectric facilities, naturally occurring mercury is released into the water column, where it is taken up by bacteria and transformed into methylmercury, a neurotoxin that can accumulate in the food chain and, in extreme cases, can cause serious damage to the neurological and nervous system of humans (Hongoltz-Hetling, M 2020).  According to a study among scientists in Hong Kong hydropower does the most damage, the scientists found. "Hydropower has degraded some of the most biologically rich habitats on our planet," said Professor William Laurance from James Cook University in Australia  (Gibson, Wilman, Laurance 2017).
       According to Kate Hudson Hydropower is Not Clean Energy:  Dams and Rivers are Major Drivers of Climate Change  She states that on November 8, 2017, the House of Representatives approved a bill, H.R. 3043, that defines hydropower as a renewable energy source and fast-tracks the licensing of large, taxpayer-funded hydro-projects, claiming that the concentration of licensing power in the hands of one federal agency—the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)—will boost a clean source of energy.  She states that research released has confirmed that dams and reservoirs are a major source of greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change. Until recently, it was believed that about 20 percent of all man-made methane emissions came from the surface of reservoirs.  Reservoirs are a classic example of how major human alterations to the Earth’s landscape can have unexpected effects.
      The impact on nearby streams will impact turbidity in the Ashokan Resevoir. 
Portions of the mountainside slopes leading down to the Maltby Hollow Creek are steep with unstable soils. Any construction on the mountainside will increase streambank erosion and even possible hillslope failure. This will result in an increase in the turbidity of the water in the Maltby Hollow Creek, and therefore into the Ashokan Reservoir.  This turbidity could also reduce the fish population in the reservoir which would drive away the bald eagles who nest near the reservoir and feed there. 
      Risk to the trout population in the Maltby Hollow Creek and Wittenberg Brook lie directly downhill from the proposed reservoir site. They are classified both as trout waters and trout spawning waters. Soil runoff from the reservoir construction and storm overflow will run directly into these two streams. This will both increase the turbidity of the streams and affect the water temperature, likely having a negative impact on trout spawning and survival. 
     Impact on rare and endangered species in the area. The core interior forest area supports a unique array of plants and animals that are easily disturbed by human activity generally associated with more open habitats (e.g., roads and developed areas). The core forest is especially important for sensitive wildlife including many forest songbirds, which avoid nesting near areas with human disturbance. Although the value of individual forest patches for wildlife depends on landscape context. 
     Additionally, both sides of the upper Dry Brook are the premier locations, in all of NY State, for the Three Birds Orchid (Triphora trianthophora).  This is very definitely a rare species.  The end of the Maltby Hollow Creek is another location for the Three Birds Orchid.  These sites are registered in the Biological and Conservation Database for North America, and in the database maintained by the New York Natural Heritage Program, jointly funded by The Nature Conservancy and NYDEC.
     The proposal does not even represent the kind of novel proposal that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city of 9 million people.
     
Sincerely,
Jen Brueckner
  
Citations:
Bierhorst, J. The Ashokan Catskills: A Natural History. Purple Mountain Press, Fleischmanns, 1995, pg 52.
Conley, A. K., E. Cheadle, and T. G. Howard. Updating Forest Patches and a Patch Assessment 

