

Bennet Ratcliff, Bearsville, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street
Washington DC 20426
Docket P-15056-000

Dear Secretary Bose,

The permit application for a feasibility study, P-15056, should be rejected outright by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission because the applicant fails to recognize the specific jurisdiction and authority granted by Public Law 87-328 to the Delaware River Basin Commission of which the municipality of Shandaken, New York is covered.

In its amended application for a preliminary permit, the applicant, Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, fails to list the Delaware River Basin Commission (DRBC) and the Town of Shandaken, in Ulster County, New York.  These omissions are quite large, and significant.  

The DRBC was created by a compact which was signed into law in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy, and signed into state laws by the Governors of Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. 

Article 2, Section 2.7 of the Public Law 87-328 states the jurisdiction of the Delaware River Basin Commission: "The commission shall have, exercise and discharge its functions, powers and duties withing the limit of the basin, except that it may in its discretion act outside the basin whenever such action may be necessary or convenient to effectuate its powers or duties within the basin, or to sell or dispose of water, hydroelectric power or other water resources within or without the basin.  The commission shall exercise such powers outside the basin only upon the consent of the state in which it proposes to act."

The DRBC lists the municipality of Shandaken, NY as one of the 63 municipalities in New York state that fall within the Delaware River Basin.  
https://www.state.nj.us/drbc/basin/municipalities.html

The applicant's amended locations appear to be outside the basin, but within the municipality of Shandaken. This municipality is clearly under the authority of the DRBC.  Article 2, Section 2.7 of Public Law 87-328 specifically states the DRBC "may in its discretion act outside of the basin."  One situation listed is "to sell or dispose of water, hydroelectric power or other water resources win or without the basin."

The applicant's proposal clearly ignores the DRBC's jurisdiction as outlined in Public Law 87-328.  The applicant's proposal clearly ignores the DRBC's authority concerning hydroelectric power "within or without the basin."

This is not simply about the applicant's failure to list the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Town of Shandaken, NY. While this is a glaring deficiency in the application, another deficiency is more significant.

The applicant is proposing that FERC grant a permit for a feasibility study for hydropower in a municipality under the authority and jurisdiction of the Delaware River Basin Commission as outlined in Public Law 87-328.

FERC should not approve such a request because the DRBC has authority and jurisdiction that this applicant ignores.

In consideration of the above and cited information, I request that you reject this application from Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, for a preliminary permit.

Respectfully,

Bennet Ratcliff
Bearsville, NY






 



