

Douglas R. Helman, Phoenicia, NY.
COMMENT IN OPPOSITION TO FERC PROJECT NO. P-15056:000.

As a life-long inhabitant of Phoenicia, NY, I write to oppose Premium Energy’s preliminary permit application for a pumped storage plant near the Ashokan Reservoir (FERC Project No. P-15056). Condemnation of this specially designated land by a private entity, or even by the federal government, would constitute a violation of both the New York and U.S. Constitutions, entailing years of costly litigation. The project must be abandoned.

In its cursory request for a preliminary permit application, Premium Energy ignores that the land it wishes to seize is entirely contained within the Catskill Forest Preserve. This preserve, along with the Adirondack Forest Preserve, represents the largest region of protected wilderness east of the Mississippi river, and in fact, is the “only such area specifically protected by a state constitution.” The Forest Preserve, A Chronology, The Conservationist (May-June 1985).  The Catskill Forest Preserve was created by New York State law on May 15, 1885, but more importantly, was enshrined in Article 14, Section 1 of the New York State Constitution in 1894. The Constitution explicitly provides that lands of the Catskills “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands” and “shall not be sold, nor shall they be leased or taken by any person or corporation, public or private.” (This is not to be confused with the entirely separate state-law designation of “Catskill Park,” which also encompasses much of the land Premium Energy seeks to commandeer. Condemnation of park land would require a cumbersome but entirely separate state process via the  NYS Department of Conservation, see NY CLS ECL § 9-0101(2) (definition of “Catskill Park”)) 

The Catskill Forest Preserve thus enjoys the highest degree of legal protection of wild lands in any state in the country. And this protection was enacted specifically to end projects like the one proposed by Premium Energy. “Historically, the forest preserve was given constitutional protection to bring a halt to the commercial exploitation [of State forests]. . . and presumably, to protect them for use by all the people of the State.” Helms v. Reid, 394 N.Y.S.2d 987, 994 (Sup. Ct. 1977). New Yorkers have successfully sued to prevent projects as minimally invasive as bobsled trails, see Protect the Adirondacks! Inc. v. N.Y. State Dep't of Envtl. Conservation, 106 N.Y.S.3d 178, 182 (App. Div. 2019). (Further note that Section 2 of Article 14, which allows Forest Preserve land to be used as a reservoir “for the municipal water supply” says nothing about generating electricity). And it is far from clear that Premium Energy has the legal authority to condemn these state-protected lands without the consent of state officials. At least one federal Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled that private parties may not condemn state-owned lands through eminent domain without explicit consent from the state. This issue is currently pending before the Supreme Court. See PennEast Pipeline Co. v. New Jersey, Supreme Court Docket No. 19-1039 (2021). The Court is likely to rule that condemnation of state lands in contravention of the state’s wishes by a private party violates the powers reserved in the Eleventh Amendment. 

But there is a far more onerous legal hurdle to this project. As New York Courts recognize, “the purpose of the ‘forever wild’ clause” in our state constitution was to specifically reserve to the people of New York the right to dictate how the Preserve land is used, and to “prevent the commercial exploitation of the forest preserve which had previously been sanctioned” even by “the Legislature.” Helms, 395 N.Y.S.2d at 994. Accordingly, it is not even up to the New York State Legislature, nor any other state or federal entity, to determine whether Premium Energy may use the land for its own purposes. The people of New York must specifically grant their consent, via an amendment to Article 14. Amending New York’s constitution is a deliberately cumbersome process that requires the approval of both houses of the Legislature in consecutive sessions, and then critically, requires public approval via plebiscite at the next general election. In the past two decades, over 2,000 amendments have been introduced in the Legislature; only 29 have made it on the ballot, and only 20 have passed. That is a success rate of approximately 1%.

As noted, no other land in America retains the degree of legal protection bestowed upon the Catskill State Forest Preserve. While this project would be legally dubious on the state lands of any other state in the country, in New York’s Forest Preserve, it is dead in the water. Not even the federal government can override the sovereignty retained by the State of New York and its people, as expressed in New York’s constitution, since the time of the founding. At the very best, New Yorkers will fight tooth and nail to end this project, and Premium Energy’s right to condemn the land would be an issue of first impression for the federal courts, tying up this project in extensive litigation for the foreseeable future. 

As the Catskill Park State Land Master Plan reminds us, “[t]he People of the State have New York have demonstrated a deep and abiding concern for the Catskill region for over a century.” See Catskill Park Master Plan (amended 2014). That abiding concern endures, and the people of New York do not and will not ever consent to this endeavor. It must be abandoned. 


Douglas R. Helman, esq.


