

chris condon, Kingston, NY.
 To:
 Kimberly D. Bose
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
 888 First St. NE, Room 1A
 Washington, D.C. 20426

 Dear Ms. Bose,
   I am writing in response to the proposal of building a Hydroelectric Plant in the Catskill Forest Preserve by the company Premium Energy Holdings. This proposal has many flaws. The company has submitted an application for a "Closed Loop System" when in fact it is an "add on" to the already existing Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of the drinking water for the City of New York. The Turbidity that is caused when you pump the water back and forth will have a very negative impact on the existing Ashokan Reservoir which is the largest unfiltered water supply in our nation. Can we really afford to take this risk when over 1.7 billion dollars have already been invested in keeping this vital source of drinking water clean and pure?  The Catskill Forest Preserve has been deemed "Forever Wild" under article XIV of the NYS Constitution which states that these lands "shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or to be taken by any corporation, public or private." Each of the proposed sites would drastically alter and ultimately destroy the diverse and fragile ecosystems that make up the over 700,000 acres of wildlife habitat. This forest preserve ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats in the region. All 3 proposed sites would also be very detrimental to the communities which will be affected should this come to fruition. Any upper reservoir would result in the seizing of homes through eminent domain. One of the proposed sites would require the closure of one of only 3 main routes through the mountains. Tourism, which is a vital part of the Catskills would be affected greatly. While I wholeheartedly agree we have a strong need for renewable energy sources it should never come at the ultimate cost of environmental and community devastation. For all that is at stake I urge you to please deny proposal P-15056-000 for Premium Energy Holdings. Thank you for your consideration. 
                 Sincerely,
                            Chris Condon

