

ILENE Marder Hinchey, Saugerties, NY.
To: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
      Washington, D.C.

From: Ilene Marder, 31 Old Powder Mill Rd., 
          31 Old Powder Mill Rd.Saugerties NY, 12477; 
          845 399-9034


RE:  Premium Energy Holdings proposedPumped Storage Project at the Ashokan Reservoir, Ulster County NY. Docket # P-15056-000


Commissioners:

I join the thousands of people who have already written in opposition to this poorly reasoned and researched plan to build this project in the Constitutionally protected Catskill Park. 

While I strongly support green energy projects, it cannot be to the extreme detriment of the welfare of people and communities in the region. 
This project is wrong for the surrounding environment and watershed, bad for the economy and tourism, detrimental to the livelihood of thousands of residents, and 
unconscionable in terms of the loss of resident’s homes and businesses. 
To add insult to injury, Premium Energy did not notify local and state officials, the City of New York which controls the reservoir, or local residents and businesses which are devastatingly affected by this “plan” (which barely deserves to be called a plan considering the many errors and complete lack of knowledge of this region contained herein).  

The Catskill Park was granted Constitutional protection for a reason. Please do not abdicate your responsibility to protect the people affected, our natural resources and water supplies, our economies, and this historically important area.

This foolhardy, poorly conceived project appears to represent a fast grab by Premier Energy to get in on the spending surge of renewable energy projects. They didn’t do their homework, they have no apparent expertise, and have been wrong on facts— including placing communities in the wrong counties. 
However, even if their plan was perfect, The Ashokan Reservoir and protected Catskill Park is no place for this project.

Thankyou for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

Ilene Marder Hinchey
Saugerties, New York, Ulster County
12477



