

Jason Howell, Brooklyn, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,
I am greatly concerned with the flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Forest Preserve. FERC should refuse their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. Having a pumped storage project link to the Ashokan reservoir would be cause irreparable harm to the environment, disrupt small local communities, and even risk the purity of NYC’s drinking water.
The Catskills forest preserve is not to be disturbed per NYS Constitution and even if it were the proposal is flawed as it jeopardizes the drinking water of NYC. Per the NYS constitution, the lands  “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The existence of this contiguous forest is essential for the well being of our forests and wildlife habitat. Not to mention a great source of recreation for people from the surrounding communities and positive economic impact. If this is allowed it would be a sad day cause what’s next on the chopping block. 
Not only will the construction be disruptive and destroying and flooding an area for an upper pond in the middle of a Forest Preserve be absurd, the effect on the surrounding community due to ground water diversion and unknown effects of holding so much water and releasing it repeatedly into a vast  reservoir that supplies unfiltered water to NYC with close to 40% of its drinking water needs. The effect on streams and trout streams which is a vital part of the tourism in the Catskills would be affected with increased turbidity too. What would the cost be in loosing something that could not be put back. 
The impact on outdoor recreation would be devastating to the community and also the long time and new residents who would face eminent domain seizures. Hiking, hunting, skiing, snowshoeing, camping, fishing, and other activities would be disrupted and potentially cut off for good. 
The idea that this is a closed loop system as Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project claims is not true. Tying into an existing system that feeds the drinking water of a major metropolitan city should be enough put a stop to this and it is heart wrenching to imagine it has even gotten to a point were citizens must standup in mass to oppose it.  
If Premium Energy want’s to make pump storage project they should find place that is not a forest preserve and has such a history of already displacing people. While they may be a future for these types of pumped storage facilities they should not be at the expense of common sense and preserved forest preserves and local communities. I would hope they were actually green and not a net loss system too. The system takes advantage of commercial energy rates at the expense of the rest of us. 

I urge you to deny the proposal for Premium Energy’s preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
Sincerely,
Jason Howell
Brookly, NY 
(Long time outdoor enthusiast of the Catskills Mountains Forest Preserve)

