

Janice Kachadourian, Lanesville, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to object to and oppose Premium Energy’s preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. The proposal contains many errors that reveal the haste with which it was contrived, as well as a lack of knowledge and research of the Catskill Preserve that seeks gain, by targeting a few energy talking points, while ignoring the political, geographic and scientific realities of the proposed site. 

The proposal targets the Catskill Preserve - 700,000 acres which are protected under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution.  Article XIV states that it “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Changes to land management in the state forest preserve cannot be made lightly, they are safeguarded by extensive legal procedures – they must be passed by constitutional amendment, and voted on by two consecutive sessions of the state legislature, and submitted to public referendum.

Further, the Preserve receives the highest rating, Status 1, under the USGS Gap Analysis Program, a national program that assesses and supports the overall conservation status of wildlife. In Hydropower Vision, the US Department of Energy states that the designations of Status 1 or Status 2 are avoided for development. The prospect of an add-on pumped storage facility being built and operated entails irreparable harm to this Status 1 environment.  In addition to the loss of hundreds of acres of forest, the building project stresses or must expand existing roads, waterways and power lines, and dig miles of underground water tunnels.  

The Premium Energy Proposal also makes the false claim of being a “closed loop” system.  In fact, what they are proposing is an “add on” system; tacking on a new reservoir to the 130-year-old Ashokan reservoir in the south Catskills, fed by the Esopus Creek and numerous tributaries. Constantly recirculating water between a new, upper reservoir and the old one would alter the sediment regime of the Esopus, and raise the turbulence levels in the Ashokan, impacting the water quality for the New York City. 

Finally, this project is set to displace thousands of people who make the area home, or who vacation in the area. Second homes, alone, in the Catskills generate 360 million dollars in economic activity.
The Premium Energy Project will seriously truncate a tourist industry that, as of 2019, made up 17% of the employment in the Catskills. 

One example of the three sites proposed for the add-on storage facility is Stony Clove at Route 214.  This officially designated Scenic Byway connects Hunter Mountain Resort and the town of Phoenicia, rated the #1 tourist destination outside of New York City.  It connects the two major highways of the Catskills, Routes 28 and 23A. And it serves as access for several busy trailheads into the Preserve, including Diamond Notch, Devil’s Path and Becker’s Hollow. Flooding or eliminating this road would therefore severely impact business, residential and tourist travel in the region.

The many species of floral and fauna nurtured in the Catskill Preserve make up a unique continuity, an intricate self-sustaining environment that is open to all for appreciation, and that disseminates benefits to the surrounding region. It provides irreplaceable animal and plant habitats interfaced by man, as resident or tourist, for sustenance, research and recreation. And finally, it provides a natural filter for the water supply that serves 40% of the population of New York City.

I respectfully request that FERC deny the ill conceived and poorly presented proposal made by Premium Energy to intrude on and destroy the vital yet fragile environment of the Catskill Preserve.

Janice Kachadourian
1560 Route 214
Lanesvillle, NY, 12450


