

Leslie Cagan, Elmhurst, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am adding my voice to the many others urging FERC to reject the Premium Energy Holdings application for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. Granting this permit could lead to the building of a hydroelectric power plant in the Catskill Mountains in New York which would be terrible for the environment, might make NYC’s drinking water less pure and be greatly disruptive to the local communities in the areas being considered.

Article XIV of the NY State Constitution clear states that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Catskill Forest Preserve has 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat, and the forest ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.

Years of construction would negatively impact both the natural life of the Preserve and the lives and livelihoods of many families in the area. And once the construction is over there could be ongoing environmental problems related to the ways the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries are connected.
In addition, as I understand it, Premium Energy’s proposal is not really a closed-loop system but rather it is an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations could certainly increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

While I and many others are concerned about the effects on the environment and water supply, we are also very worried about the negative impact Premium Energy’s proposal would have on local communities. Any of the possible upper reservoir sites in the Catskill Forest Preserve would mean homes and private property will be seized by via eminent domain. People who lose their homes because of the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would face the daunting challenging of trying to find new housing since there is a housing shortage in Ulster County, and homes that are on the market are very costly. 

Premium Energy’s project would certainly limit access to hiking, fishing, and other activities in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and generally reduce tourism in the region. The tourism industry accounted for 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. 

Finally, the Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project  proposal does not represent the type of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. 

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. 

I urge you and FERC to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056-000.

Thank you.
Sincerely,
Leslie Cagan


