

RICHARD ALAN RADEL, GANSEVOORT, NY.
To Whom it  May Concern, 

This letter is written as response to the preliminary applicated entitled the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.  I Grew up In the Town of Olive, ( Ashokan ) and have enjoyed the State Forest Preserve for recreational pursuits, Hunting, Hiking , Mountain Biking , Back packing, and fishing.  I Have experienced the expansive growth of the Town of Olive and surrounding communities. We have had unprecedented weather extremes over the past 2 decades which has affected the flora and Fauna. We have seen floods, and fluctuations in the water level in the fabled Esopus Creek. I am vehemently against this proposal as it will adversely affect the local community and the aesthetic beauty of the Catskills. The native brook trout, Rainbow trout and Brown trout will be affected with the fluctuation of water levels and water temperature. Conversely, the upper or west basin would also be affected, and the topography changed. The local infrastructure cannot support the heavy equipment that is needed for construction. Let us not let history repeat itself. Let us review the New York Public Library digital collections articles regarding the Catskill Aqueduct . In 1905, the New York State Legislature established the Board of Water Supply (BWS) and imbued the Board with significant power to dictate land use, seize land through eminent domain, and realize a massive expansion of the New York City water supply.  This will happen again for the greater good of New York City , not the residents. Let us not forget The  Constitution of the State of New York, 
ARTICLE XIV CONSERVATION
Section 1. The lands of the state, now owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold, or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private, nor shall the timber thereon be sold, removed, or destroyed.

This proposal is an effort to circumvent the New York State Constitution as a Living constitution to be manipulated and interpreted by lawyers and politicians who stand to benefit from its construction. This project needs to halt at its inception . 

Respectfully, 

Richard A.Radel
91 Spier Falls Road
Gansevoort, N.Y. 12831 

