

Linda Werner, OLIVEBRIDGE, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street
Washington, D.C.  20426                                                                                                    April 10, 2021

Docket #P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose:

I object to Premium Energy Holding's proposal to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Mountains.

The application itself is deficient and misleading. 

Premium Energy states that the project is a “closed loop” design. It is an “add-on” design with increased negative environmental impacts. Note position of Esopus Creek in relation to Ashokan Reservoir. Note position of Ashokan Reservoir to proposed new reservoir.

Towns referred to are non-existent. There is no Shokan City, West Hurley City or West Shokan Town. Ridgeline Forest Services is a private business, not a political subdivision.

The proposed site is located in the New York State Catskill Forest Preserve. Article XIV of the NYS Constitution states the land “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Project implementation would require a NYS constitutional amendment. That requires passage of both legislative houses and a sign-off by the Governor, none of which would garner public support.

The Catskills are designated Status 1 under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program” which, according to the US Department of Energy's own Hydropower Vision, is to be ”...avoided for development.”

The increased turbidity would negatively impact the drinking water of 9 million New York City residents.

Premium Energy states the project would involve public lands,while their GPS co-ordinates reveal private properties as well, which brings up eminent domain issues.

The Ashokan Reservoir was created over 100 years ago by completely uprooting and/or removing existing towns, homes, businesses, cemeteries, and people. I believe this fact contributes to the Town of Olive's daunting activism as verified not only by voter turnout but its resident participation in all issues presented, including years of court battles with New York City. Let's not add insult to injury.

I do understand the need for transition to green-energy sources. This proposal does not land in the solution for this transition. Quite the opposite. I urge you to reject the Premium Energy Proposal for a preliminary permit for Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Respectfully submitted,
Linda L. Werner
50 Weber Lane, Olivebridge, NY 12461, (845)657-6467

