

Cathy Capozzi, Kingston, NY.
101 Oneil St 

Apt 1 

Kingston, NY 12401 

Cathy.capozzi1993@gmail.com  

docket number P-15056-000 

 

April 8, 2021 

 

Dear Sir or Madam: 

 

It has come to my attention, and the attention of many others, that Premium Energy Holdings has made a proposal to build a reservoir, dam, and underground power station to harness the Ashokan Reservoir and its watershed for hydroelectric power. This is a mistake. There are a multitude of reasons why this is the wrong course of action including, but not limited to: infringement on religious freedoms, discrimination against Asian Americans, ignoring of Constitutional rights, pollution of New York City drinking water, increased unemployment due to destruction of homes and businesses, desecration and destruction of countless trails and land used for outdoor activities, all of which is vital to the region’s world-renown tourism business and to the region’s local economy. By creating this power station, Premium Energy Holdings is destroying much, much more than they are building. 

To start it is important to make known that a Buddhist monastery sits in Mt Tremper, NY at the base of the Catskill mountains near where this power station is meant to be erected. Not only is this an important site for outsiders making their pilgrimages to a quiet place where they can practice their beliefs, it is also a place where the Buddhist Mountains and Rivers Order calls home and where this Asian practice is carried out day after day. At this monastery, followers of Buddha perform meditation exercises and other Buddhist practices in a place that is conducive to peace and the tranquility needed to perform such practices. A power plant would surely cause enough noise to disrupt these sacred practices. Also, this Order is peacefully protesting the daily discrimination against Asians along with many others during the current StopAsianHate movement. To disrupt this monastery is to disrupt social harmony and create further social unrest and distress. 

With such enormous problems as social unrest and a potentially failing economy, it can easily be seen why the beautiful Catskills Preserve, a land protected under the US Constitution, should be left intact for all to enjoy. 

 

Thank you for your time, 

Catherine Capozzi 

