

Eleanor Waligurski, BROOKLYN, NY.
To  
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Re: P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing to express my opposition to the Premium Energy Hydropower plant proposal.  I do not understand why a preserved natural habitat is the place for such a project.  
The Catskills Forest Preserve contains a wonderful 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat, and the surrounding environment rates in the top 1% of forest habitats in the region.  With human construction projects creeping ever further into what is left of our natural Earth habitat we need to take action now to preserve these wonderful examples of nature on Earth.  A hydropower plant in the middle of one of the most pristine preserves is moving in the opposite direction and runs counter to article XIV of NY’s own constitution which states the lands, “shall be forever be kept as wild forest lands.  They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”
The Catskills are also designated a Status 1 state forest preserve under the USGS Gap Analysis Program.  The  Dept. of Energy’s own hydropower vision declares that: 
“areas with formal protection designated Status 1 or 2 under the USGs Gap Analysis program, are avoided for development.” 
Please deny this proposed project.  I am not against hydropower, and am glad for  a focus on green energy, but this is not the place for such a project.
Secondly, I am not an expert on hydroelectric plants but have read that pumped storage is not an efficient model, and so would recommend taking a closer look at whether this type of hydropower plant even makes sense.
There are other concerns as well, such as effects on sediments in downstream waters such as the Esopus Creek, which would in turn affect aquatic life and further, water quality in NYC.
This particular proposal runs counter to the US mandates and New York’s own Constitution, and makes no sense from an environmental or even practical perspective.  More would be lost than gained. What a sadly misguided irony to destroy a pristine natural habitat in the name of green energy.
I ask that you please consider these concerns in your decision and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
Sincerely,
Eleanor Waligurski


