

Adrienne Larys, Troy, NY.
I write to oppose the Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage Energy project proposed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC of California. Project Docket # P=15056.

The application to FERC is poorly conceived and appears to show complete ignorance of the purposes of the Ashokan Reservoir and the constitutionally protected Catskill Park. While it is important for this county to prepare for a future that is less reliant on fossil fuels, the installation of such an energy generation plant in the middle of the Catskills and Catskill Park is not environmentally sound. 

The Ashokan reservoir is a significant source of fresh, clean drinking water for 9 million people in the New York Metropolitan area. The New York Department of Environmental Protection has invested billions of dollars in preserving the purity of the famed Catskill water. A pump storage hydro-electric plant situated to draw water from an upper reservoir and drain it into the Ashokan to generate electricity will increase turbidity — something that will affect the quality of the water for the downstate residents and the ecology of important protected trout fisheries and other plant and animal habitats, let alone destroy the natural and historically significant landscape for which the Catskills have been enjoyed and celebrated since the early 19th century. The Catskills relatively speaking do not encompass a very large area. What may seem like small incursion will be grossly magnified and have a wide impact.

Any of the three proposed upper reservoirs will have even greater impact both upstream and downstream from the dams, destroying the very environment the NYS Legislature sought to preserve when it created the Catskill Park in 1904. 

Water is vital to all life on earth. The Catskills have been shaped over the eons by the forces of climate and geology to create a place that is undeniably extremely rich in this vital natural resource. It must look tempting to a company from California where water is not an abundant natural resource.

Worldwide, dams themselves are altering the very way our entire planet functions. According to a PBS documentary series on water: “H2O, The Molecule that Made Us”, the sheer number of dams that have been constructed world wide, with China and the United States in the lead, has had a measurable effect on the planet. There are nearly 24,000 large dams in China, and a total of 84,000 dams in the United States. This impounding of large volumes of water is a major concern for the planet and for the world wide management of this precious resource. It has been determined that the sheer weight of the water behind all these dams is altering the shape of the planet and changing its rotation.

I am not a scientist or engineer, but I love the Catskill Mountains and the Catskill Park. I have hiked its peaks and explored its valleys. I am the president of a small historical society in the Catskills. We work to preserve the heritage and legacy of the people and the environment of the Catskills. Building the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage project and damming up one of three protected valleys will irreparably damage the beauty and health of the Catskill Park, including the forests, fields and pristine streams that run down its valleys and mountain sides. 

Pump storage hydroelectric projects may be inevitable and necessary but planning them carefully and avoiding at all costs a deleterious impact on the people, their neighborhoods, and the environment is imperative. Please reject the Premium Energy Holding, LLC proposal to build the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. Thank you.

