

Alexander Sandor, Aurora, CO.
Good evening,
My name is Alexander Sandor and I write as a member of the Roxmor community off Woodland Valley rd. I am a 3rd generation resident of Roxmor Colony.

 I am currently travelling and learning which is my address is not more localized. However this does not mean I don't long for a pie from Brio's or to lounge on tubes down the Esopus Creek with friends and family alike. Stopping in for some ice cream and buying nicknacks from the nest egg.

     I am confident you've read a share of emails dedicated to the environmental impacts, economic implications, for phoenicians and NY state itself as well as its environment would be assuredly irreversibility impacted. I understand I was advised to highlight these tangible and understandable values to be calculated against one another. However I seek to voice my opposition on the basis of the place itself. The community as a whole. The people, customs, passions, cultures that may be simply lost to a private company's ambition. 

      Assigning a value to a company, experience or life has always been a struggle to the state. Balancing gains and losses based on progress and what part of ourselves as a body or people's get left behind. A business can be valued. As can a property or an opportunity in gross terms. However the experience, culture, the things learned are something that can never be taken away. 

     There is one thing that is always said when you graduate college. "You have something no one person or entity can not take from you, your knowledge, understanding, and experience". This company will not simply take lands away but experiences, culture and tradition. 

    Square dances and pig roasts and traditions extended further. Including but not limited to council fires wherein knowledge is passed down generation by generation. Songs remembered skills learned and taught by parents and grandparents. Gaining a respect for nature and leaning while stocking the stream with trout or finding small swimming holes. Another generation is growing and it pains me to think a corporation would rob my children and a 4th generation of learning about, respecting and enjoying the traditions of a place that cannot be replaced. If we take away what makes us special nothing is left but a calculated anger and anxiety. I hope you and your coworkers not only understand but feel the gravity of the loss of a historical and cultural place in NY.

~Alexander W. Sandor


