

Stephanie Blackman, Chichester, NY, NY.
April 12, 2021

Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426

RE: Docket #P-15056

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to voice my opposition to the pumped storage hydroelectric generation project recently proposed by Premier Energy Holdings LLC for the Catskill Mountain region of New York. (FERC Docket #P-15056)

This project is ill conceived in too many ways to innumerate in this letter. Here are just a few of the many issues and negative impacts:

1. The project’s proposed reservoirs and tunnels would be located in the Catskill State Forest — land designated as “Forever Wild” by means of an amendment to the New York State constitution in 1904. Another amendment to the state constitution would be necessary to reverse this designation and build these reservoirs and tunnels. 

2. Building any of the proposed reservoirs and tunnels would require the seizure and inundation of many privately-owned homes and properties, presumably by eminent domain. In addition, the single road that provides the sole access to each of these valleys would be destroyed, effectively cutting off access to numerous homes. In the case of the proposed Chichester/Lanesville reservoir, Route 214 (a state highway) would be inundated, eliminating the only road connection between the towns of Shandaken and Hunter and between state highways 28 and 23A.

3. The idea of pumping water in and out of the Ashokan Reservoir, which provides approximately 40% of New York City’s water seems inconceivable. (My understanding is that the NYC Department of Environmental Protection, which manages the reservoir system, was not consulted.) First, pumping activities would disturb 100 years worth of sediment now resting on the bottom, ensuring continual turbidity in the water delivered to New York City. NYC would surely no longer be able to qualify for the EPA’s Filtration Avoidance Determination and would be forced to build filtration facilities at a staggering cost. Second, how would the Ashokan Reservoir, completed in 1915, stand up to the constant in-and-out movement of water?

4. Any of the proposed reservoirs would destroy valuable recreational lands and critical wild trout habitat. Catskill Mountain streams are renowned for their wild trout angling opportunities, and the area draws anglers, hikers and other visitors from all over the world. These are important economic resources for the region, as well.

5. And what about maintenance? Who maintains the reservoir and miles of tunnels, which will exist long after Premier Energy Holdings is gone, perhaps purchased and carved up by a hedge fund, or just no longer in business, say, 50 years from now. This brings to mind the issue of uncapped or improperly capped wells and toxic wastewater ponds left behind when fracking companies have left or gone bust. The cost will be left to New York taxpayers, no doubt.

In addition to the above, numerous other objections to this proposal will be raised by others. I urge you to refuse the permit to study this proposed project.

Sincerely,

Stephanie Blackman
Chichester, NY resident

