

Camille Alma, BAYSIDE HILLS, NY.
April 12, 2021

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) completely reject the application for a preliminary permit by Premium Energy for their Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.  

The Catskills are a State Preserve protected by Article XIV, Section 1, of the New York State Constitution, “…shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private...”.

In addition, the Catskills Park State Forest Preserve has been designated by the US Geological Survey as Status 1 land. Section 3.3.4 of the Hydropower Environmental Considerations of the US Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision Report explicitly states that protected lands - areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the U.S. Geological Survey’s Gap Analysis Program 10 - are avoided for development. 

Lastly, the project is identified as being a closed-loop project. However, the project is adding an upper reservoir to an existing lower reservoir, which is in fact an open-loop or “add-on” project. Outflow from the proposed 216-acre reservoir would raise and lower an open system of protected water that nine million New Yorkers depend on for their water. The Department of Energy’s April 2020 report, A Comparison of the Environmental Effects of Open-Loop and Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower, compared the potential environmental effects of constructing and operating open loop and closed-loop pumped storage hydropower projects and concluded that  “…the impacts of project operations would still likely be higher than for closed-loop because the add-on project’s lower reservoir is still continuously connected to and affects a naturally flowing water feature.”  

Based on the above, I strongly request that FERC deny Premium Energy’s Pumped Storage Project application for the Ashokan Reservoir.  

Respectfully,
Camille Alma


