

William Smith, Shokan, NY.
Hello.

I am responding/commenting on the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.  After reading through the entire proposal, a few thoughts came to mind.   First is the obvious environmental impact that, from my talks with people is the obvious reason to oppose the project.  Yet; I like to go further into the topic then just be very generic with a coverall opposition of " the project will impact nature".  

First; nowhere in the proposal did I see the full electrical coverage of the proposed project.  I wonder if the megawatt production is just for current needs, an anticipated need or for supplemental electrical coverage.  I therefore question the validity of the massive impact to the surrounding communities and nature. 
Secondly.; after looking at the three dam proposals; I honestly do not see the reason to create Stony Clove or the Woodland Dam.  If the project DOES goes forward, with the distance to Ashokan Reservoir being so much closer to the proposed Wittenberg Dam, that seems to make the most sense.  Add to the fact of having to create a horizontal tunnel only 2.71 miles long, that is vastly shorter than the other two.  It would also have the least environmental impact I presume.  Also at only 673 acre-ft. less capacity than the Woodland Reservoir and vastly more than Stony Clove; that just adds to the reasons for Wittenberg Dam.  Yet; please note that I am not advocating for the project. 

Lastly; although I have only been a resident of Shokan for 3 and a half years, I have fallen in love with the beauty that the area possesses. People live here to be closer to nature, not next to massive construction, continued destruction and altering of the land and more and more intrusion onto what nature has to offer.  Although Ashokan reservoir was created before anyone here was alive; the irreparable damage, destruction and erasing of entire communities was an act of permanence that can never be undone.  This on top of the permanent alteration of natures landscape.  Add that injury to the insult of all that being done for a city over 120 miles away.  New York City gobbled up even more land.  Yet that is another story.

  My point however poses a very important set of questions/thoughts.  The building of the reservoir in 1915 has had lasting effects for over 105 years.   Most of us just see a beautiful body of water and the nature around it; yet there was a pretty dark past to its inception.  So, I will end with this....

WHAT WILL BE THE LASTING, GENERATIONAL EFFECTS OF THIS PROJECT?  WHO WILL THIS PROJECT BEST SERVE? WILL THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES BE THE ABSOLUTE BENEFACTORS? THEY SHOULD IF IT IS THEIR COMMUNITIES BEING AFFECTED......

Respectfully Submitted,

William Smith




