

Michael B Cooper, New York, NY.
99 Dry Brook Road
West Shokan, New York 12494

April 11, 2021

Secretary Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Re: FERC project number P-15056-000

Dear Secretary Bose:

I am writing to express my extreme concern over and opposition to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC of California to build a pumped storage and hydroelectric facility at the Ashokan Reservoir, and surrounding areas, in New York's Catskill Mountains.  While I am supportive of efforts to decarbonize our energy supply, the benefits of the particular proposed project will be marginal at best and do not outweigh the very high costs the project will impose on the region in terms of environmental and economic impact.  Most importantly for this stage of permitting, the application suffers from basic flaws and inaccuracies and does not merit approval.

1.	The project would necessitate the acquisition of property that is not subject to the eminent domain power granted by the Federal Power Act.  Specifically, all of the options for the upper reservoir contained in the proposal would involve property that is currently owned by New York State and New York City that meets the description contained in section 21 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. s. 814) of "lands or other property that, prior to October 24, 1992, were owned by a State or political subdivision thereof and were part of or included within any public park, recreation area or wildlife refuge established under State or local law." Such property is ineligible to be taken by a licensee under eminent domain.  In addition, a voluntary transfer of such property by the State would require a constitutional amendment, a very difficult, slow, and rarely successful process.

2.	The application notes that if the preliminary permit is granted, Premium Energy will spend up to $5 million on subsurface investigations, including soil and rock borings and seismic surveys and testing in the delicate and diligently protected reservoir watershed, which also composes part of the land protected as described in the prior paragraph.  While I believe this alone merits denial of the application, if the permit is granted, Premium Energy should be required to file environmental impact statements with state and local authorities that address the impact of these preliminary testing activities.

3.	The project is described as a "closed loop" but it is actually an add-on to an existing reservoir, as the Esopus Creek runs into and out of the Ashokan Reservoir.

4.	The application contains the following errors and omissions:
-  Portions of the project are in Greene County, which is not listed
-  "Shokan City" does not exist
-  "West Hurley City" does not exist
-  West Shokan is a hamlet, not a town
-  The project would be situated partly in each of the Town of Olive, Town of Shandaken, Town of Hunter, and the Town of Hurley; none of which are listed
-  Olivebridge is a hamlet, not a town
-  The City of Kingston, New York, is not listed as a local political subdivision that is within 15 miles of the project and has a population over 5,000
-  The Town of Rosendale, New York, is not listed as a local political subdivision that is within 15 miles of the project and has a population over 5,000
-  Maltby Hollow Brook is not listed as a stream in the impacted area
-  Dry Brook is not listed as a stream in the impacted area
-  Woodland Creek is not listed as a stream in the impacted area
-  Stony Clove Creek is not listed as a stream in the impacted area

5.	The application lacks precision and uses very low-resolution and possibly out-of-date and incorrect topographical information, including geographic coordinates that do not correspond to the locations shown on the maps.

6.	By requiring the reservation of up to 15,800 acre feet out of the Ashokan Reservoir's total capacity of 382,300 acre feet, the project would permanently reduce the capacity of the Ashokan Reservoir to supply drinking water to New York City by over 4%--the equivalent of drinking water for 360,000 people.

7.	The project is highly inefficient.  By the sponsor's own presumably best-case analysis, the plant would consume 1000 MW of power and only generate 800 MW in each cycle of pumping and release.  This consumes net 200 MW per cycle, which represents 80% efficiency.  By contrast, battery technology is more than 90% efficient today and, given the amount of investment in battery technology research, is likely to be much better and far more scalable when this hydro storage plant would go on-line, approximately fifteen years from now at the earliest.

8.	By requiring the reservation of up to 15,800 acre feet out of the Ashokan Reservoir's total capacity of 382,300 acre feet, the project would permanently reduce the capacity of the Ashokan Reservoir to supply drinking water to New York City by over 4%--the equivalent of drinking water for 360,000 people.

It is not in the public interest to grant a preliminary permit to a project that is inefficient, legally non-viable, and not a true closed-loop system, the application for which lacks important detail and is rife with errors and omissions.  There is no reason to allow the applicant to continue to expend its own resources, those of the communities, organizations and governments opposed to the project, and those of FERC itself on such an ill-conceived and fatally flawed project.

Respectfully submitted,

Michael B. Cooper
FERC ID #F650311


