

Alison Maltby-Duggan, Olivebridge, NY.
Alison Maltby-Duggan
Olivebridge, NY

To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I ask that FERC decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056).

I am a firm believer in renewable energy sources, but I find the proposal to be deeply flawed. Their calling of the project as a “closed-loop” instead of an “add-on” is particularly disturbing to me since their use of the Upper Basin of the Ashokan Reservoir, as proposed, could threaten the drinking water of the more than 8.5 million residents of New York City.

I am also deeply concerned about the effects this project would have on the wildlife of the area. All the proposed reservoirs appear to fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area. The Upper Esopus Creek, which feeds into the Upper Basin of the Reservoir, is a trout breeding site and could be affected by changes in turbidity caused by the proposed project. The US Geological Survey has designated the Catskills Park State Forest Preserve as Status 2 lands. According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” The Esopus Creek has been listed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife’s National Rivers Inventory as “Outstandingly Remarkable Value: Fish, Recreational, Scenic”. The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to New York State’s Hudson Valley Forest Condition Index. 
In addition to its potentially negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply harmful to the fabric of local communities. Residents displaced by the project would likely have a hard time securing new housing, as there is a housing shortage in Ulster County, and for homes that are available, prices are high. In addition to this, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry which supports 20,000 jobs. The project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills. The proposed Stony Clove Reservoir site would cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville. The proposed Woodland Valley Reservoir site looks like it would cut off access to Woodland Valley Campground and the trails around it.

I hope that Premium Energy is able to find a different spot for their project where they will not have to disturb a wilderness that is in the New York Constitution (Article XIV) as lands that “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Renewable energy should happen, but not at the expense of protected wilderness, vulnerable communities, and incredibly important natural resources.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project (P-15056).

Thank You,
Alison Maltby-Duggan


