

marcy t. meiller, phoenicia, NY.
04/12/21
Good morning to you, whom it may concern,

Having served as past Treasurer of the Woodland Community Association for apx.10 years, ending in the year 2013, I have made it a point to educate myself on the Rules and Regulations that govern the Zoning Code of the Town of Shandaken. During my tenure as Treasurer we successfully litigated to halt a proposal to “harvest” water from a spring at the far end of Woodland Valley situated in an R5 designated residential area. So I am familiar with research on water sources, tables, turbidity, etc. In short the drastic effects that can come to pass by the act of moving water from it’s natural course of flow to places where it was never meant to be. In general these effects tend to be disastrous to the environment, as well as the surrounding communities. 
    I could write in great detail of why I believe that the preliminary application proposal sent to FERC by Premium Energy is beyond ABSURD !!!, however I am trusting that FERC will see the deficiencies even in the initial preliminary application proposal and send Premium not only back to the drawing board, but AWAY altogether(wish them into the corn field, for you Twilight Zone aficionados).
I also question whether this application from Premium Energy is valid in any way, since they supposedly have “rescinded” their choices for the three sites that they had initially put forth. Does this not make the application moot at this point? Are they saying “We would like to do something, somewhere, at  some point, and we would like FERC to permit us to study that something, somewhere, but we don’t know what it is that it will be? Again ABSURD !!!
The lack of information and transparency leads me to question what the actual motives hiding behind any of this nonsense really is.
   Should any of this move forward in any way we will muster our ranks and proceed with what-so-ever we must do to protect our beloved Valley and precious water.
I for one (or perhaps one amongst many) am so grateful to the DEP for their very strong stance of condemnation, and the power to back that up.
It is my sincere hope that FERC will heed the words of all who object.
May you live long and prosper, and never want for clean water.
Be Well
Sincerely
Marcy T. Meiller
Past Treasurer- Woodland Community Association
Woodland Valley 
Phoenicia, NY



