

Steven Parisio, Olivebridge, NY.
FERC Docket P-15056
Ashokan Pumped Storage Project

I oppose this project based on the following concerns:

1. The project would, regardless of which alternative is selected for the upper reservoir, pose a significant threat to the nation’s largest municipal water system.  Energy is an important societal need for which trade-offs might be justified, but it is not more important or more basic than clean drinking water.  

The Ashokan reservoir and its drainage basin are a major part of the world’s largest unfiltered water supply which provides drinking water to over 9 million people.  This unique resource is one of only five unfiltered water supplies serving a major city in the U.S.  By protecting the watershed from development and contamination sources, the City avoids spending $10 billion to build a massive filtration plant and $100 million annually to operate such a plant.  The Ashokan Reservoir provides 40 percent of the City’s drinking water.

Turbidity and suspended sediment have been and continue to be the most serious threat to water quality in the Ashokan Reservoir.  This concern is described in detail in a 2016 report by the US Geological Survey.  All three of the upper reservoir alternatives involve extensive clearing of vegetation, disturbance of soils and construction activities which would take place in streams tributary to the reservoir and would cut across areas with steep slopes and soils that are highly susceptible to erosion.  The upper Esopus watershed was occupied by a pro-glacial lake during the last ice age and the silt and clay deposits originating from that glacial lake represent a significant source of turbidity which can be released by even minor disturbances within the stream channel. 

2. Two of the alternatives would violate the New York State Constitution by encroaching upon protected State lands and forests.  Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, adopted in 1894, declares that State-owned land in the Adirondack and Catskill State Parks shall remain “forever wild”.  This provision in New York’s constitution represents the strongest and most closely guarded commitment to wilderness preservation in the nation and has withstood development pressures and legal challenges for well over 100 years. Since its inception, the Forest Preserve has generated multi-generational and bipartisan support for the protection of wildlands, including a vast array of unique ecosystems, and abundant outdoor recreational opportunities. The proposal to site an energy project in a manner that encroaches on New York State Forest Preserve lands and forests flies in the face of the State Constitution and the strongly held conviction of New Yorkers that this unique natural resource and all of its societal benefits should be protected and preserved for future generations. 

3. The undeveloped and unspoiled natural beauty of the Catskills in conjunction with is proximity to New York City and other major population centers has led to the development of a $1.6 billion tourism industry supporting close to 20,000 jobs.  Disruptions caused by this project would pose direct economic threats to the regional economy.  For example, one alternative would destroy the NYSDEC’s Woodland Valley Campground which has been in operation since 1902 and is one of the State’s oldest and most popular campgrounds.  Another alternative would eliminate Route 214 which is only one of only two transportation corridors allowing vehicle traffic through the high central escarpment of the Catskills.  Blocking this route would greatly reduce access to the NYSDEC’s Devil’s Tombstone Campground as well the Hunter and Windham ski centers.  

4. The federal Department of Energy’s Office of Legacy Management defines environmental justice as “the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people, regardless of race, color, national origin, or income, with respect to the development, implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies” and defines “fair treatment” as meaning that “no population bears a disproportionate share of negative environmental consequences resulting from industrial, municipal, and commercial  operations or from the execution of federal, state, and local laws; regulations; and policies”. One of the proposed alternatives targets a community in the Town of Olive which has a history of forced sacrifice due to the condemnation of homes and businesses by New York City for the original construction of the Ashokan Reservoir. To this day, the Town lacks a physical town center and the impacts of the reservoir are still deeply felt.  To repeat this process, targeting the same community by flooding residential properties and access roads in the Valley of Maltby Hollow Brook (Moonhaw Rd and Shultis Lane) is unfair and demonstrates a lack of understanding or concern regarding the history of the community in which the project is proposed.  


