

Jeffrey Roberts, OLIVEBRIDGE, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to make my voice heard about the poorly conceived and executed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains.  I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, due to: the problems presented by the legal ramifications; the lack of congruence with DoE objectives; and the impact on a delicate ecosystem which has been preserved “forever wild.”  

We must not sacrifice the idyllic and protected Catskill Forest Preserve in the process of securing new energy sources.  Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve has large swathes of continuous wildlife habitat, as well as fragile ecosystems. We must protect our “forever wild” land, for its own sake, and to set precedent for future projects.  A pumped storage system such as this will increase turbidity in the Esopus Creek, and threaten the un-filtered water supply for NYC.  Our community is fueled by eco-tourism.  In the fallout of the pandemic, the Catsklils became a refuge of beauty and space from the crowded cities.  We need to preserve the environmental beauty in order to preserve our local tourist economy.

The legal ramifications of building a new reservoir in the Catskills are staggering.  Landowners would be forced to allow the building of the reservoirs, most likely by eminent domain.  How will Premium Energy address the herculean task of the NYS legislature creating an amendment to the state constitution to allow a project like this on protected land?

Premium Energy claims this project is a “closed-loop” system when in fact it is an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir.  This is not the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see, and Premium Energy has not been honest in the proposal.  We can assume that their deceit was intended to secure a fast-track approval, but the citizens and lawmakers of NYS are not fool, and we expect that proposals be honest and transparent.

I am aware that the transition to renewable, green-energy sources will not be easy, but I am passionate that it will not come at the expense of environmental protection. Premium Energy has every right to find a suitable location for a pumped storage project—but this is not it.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Jeffrey Roberts

 


