

Nina Shengold, Stone Ridge, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE
Washington DC 20426

Docket # P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

As an environmentalist, I'm excited by the possibilities of hydroelectric power as a greener alternative to fossil fuels.  But Premium Energy Holdings's plan to build a pumped-storage hydroelectric facility using the Ashokan Reservoir as a lower basin and excavating a new upper reservoir in the surrounding mountains is a classic example of the right idea in the wrong place. 

My home is five miles from the Ashokan Reservoir, and it's no exaggeration to say I walk there every day.  My book Reservoir Year: A Walker's Book of Days (Syracuse University Press, 2020) details the reservoir's natural history, human and animal communities, and the history of its construction.  I've also hiked, biked and driven through all three of the proposed upper reservoir sites.  I know this watershed inside out, and it's amply clear that Premium Energy does not.

The proposal is misleading, describing the three proposed upper basin sites as "near" the Catskill Park, when all three overlap the park's boundaries, including wild lands protected in perpetuity by New York State law.  The town of Lanesville is identified as being in Ulster County, not Greene.  

Most crucially, this is billed as a "closed-loop" system.  It is not.  The Ashokan Reservoir is an active water supply for the City of New York.  Its waters enter from the upper Esopus Creek, gather in the reservoir's basin, and are released through gravity-feed tunnels to NYC's holding reservoirs and into the lower Esopus Creek to the Hudson River.  The Esopus is plagued with ongoing turbidity issues that affect water quality, fish mortality, algae bloom, erosion and silt buildup, flood damage to nearby properties, and loss of revenue from tourism and recreational activities such as fishing, swimming, and kayaking.  The release channels and lower creek are opaque brown and frothy, churning around submerged tree trunks.  At the creek mouth near the Saugerties lighthouse, muddy water fans into the Hudson.

Compounding these problems by pumping huge quantities of water to and from an upper reservoir on a daily basis is a disastrous idea.  The proposed sites are upstream of an unfiltered gravity-feed water system that provides 40% of the drinking water for 9 million people.   I understand that in recent days Premium has agreed to look for alternate locations for the upper reservoir, but given the need for a high elevation and a dammable creek, there really are no good alternatives.  

The problem is not which part of the Catskill Park watershed to seize, grub, and dam to build a new upper reservoir above the Ashokan.  The problem is the Ashokan itself.  It is simply the wrong place to locate this pumped-storage plant.  Water quality and turbidity issues are only the tip of the iceberg.  Premium's hydroelectric project would uproot local residents, negatively impact wildlife and fish habitat, lower property values, curtail tourism and recreation, and destroy a carefully preserved, forever-wild part of New York state's cultural heritage.

As you know from the hundreds of letters you've received, I'm not alone in these objections.  During the last three decades, I've been involved in many local environmental and development issues, and I have never seen such unanimity of opinion.  The city of New York, the DEP and DEC, politicians in both parties, local business owners, town boards, local and national environmental organizations, green energy boosters, fishermen, hunters, hikers, second-homers and longtime local residents: no one supports this plant.  I have not heard a single voice saying, "But it's good for the local economy.  We need the jobs."  Not one.

What I am hearing, loud, clear, and everywhere, is NO.  Please listen and turn down Premium Energy's request for a feasibility study.  This ambitious and well-meaning project belongs in another location.

Respectfully submitted,

Nina Shengold
201 Woodland Road
Stone Ridge, NY 12484
Ulster County


