

Anne Devine, Bearsville, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am a Catskills area resident writing in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains.
 
I strongly urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

While there’s no doubt that pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.

Premium Energy's project in any of the proposed area/s would displace wildlife.
The region is a crucial homeland to countless birds and wildlife. Around the Ashokan Reservoir and nearby forests, there are nesting Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) and numerous other protected birds. 

As a local resident, walking artist and avid outdoor enthusiast, I have walked throughout the area and hiked many of the trails of the Catskill Preserve. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities. ANY conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a process that already displaced thousands when the Ashokan was constructed 100 years ago. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would likely have a hard time securing new housing (rental or purchase), as there is currently an extreme housing shortage in Ulster County.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Anne Devine



