

Cynthia Purchase, Marietta, GA.
Please accept these comments regarding docket P-15056.
The proposed 800-megawatt hydroelectric project would draw water from a lower reservoir, the existing Ashokan Reservoir. The upper reservoir would be built at one of three sites: West Shokan, Shandaken, or Hunter. Between 13 and 17 miles of transmission lines would be required to connect to the grid.

I strongly oppose this pumped storage project. 
1. The Catskills are a State Preserve protected by the NY State Constitution.
The proposed dam, reservoir, powerhouse, pipeline, and powerlines will permanently damage the viewshed and recreational experiences on multiple hiking trails. Reduced tourist dollars and business revenue would directly hurt area communities.

Undisturbed wild lands and waterways where native flora and fauna thrive would be irreversibly damaged by constructing new dams and reservoirs and associated infrastructure. Noise, light and dust pollution, and increased sedimentation of waterways will degrade trail users’ experiences.

Powerline right-of-ways will disrupt ecosystems and fragment habitat. Sensitive native vegetation will be destroyed. Invasive species will spread into the State Preserve 

2. NYC drinking water comes in part from the Ashokan Reservoir. This project would increase turbidity and negatively impact NYC’s drinking water. 

The US Environmental Protection Agency allows New York City to operate an unfiltered water supply. New York City’s Filtration Avoidance Determination is worth at least $10 billion; the estimated cost to build and maintain a plant large enough to filter drinking water for 9 million City residents.

3. Pumped hydroelectric is a clean solution to the problem of energy storage. However, pumped hydroelectric is a net consumer of energy. Pumping water uphill uses more power than the power generated by letting it run downhill to spin the turbines.

Please deny the preliminary application for Premium Energy Holdings, LLC.
Thank you

