

Margery Schab, Woodstock, NY.
I urge you to reject Premium Energy Holdings LLC request for a preliminary permit for the proposed Ashokan Pump Storage project.  Sustainable and renewable energy is important, but this plan in the heart of the Catskill Mountains could well become an environmental and economic disaster for the region and New York City.  

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Those who wrote the state constitution understood well the  priceless value of the Catskill Park and the New York City Watershed.  According to The Catskill Park: Inside the Blue Line, Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.  I believe the citizens of not only Ulster county but also the metro area of New York state which includes New York City, Westchester, Orange, Rockland Counties would not support such an amendment.

Moreover, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are to be avoided for development.”

A NYC Watershed is a valuable capital asset, representing billions of dollars of investment; $1.7 billion since the 1990s alone

A $1.6 billion industry in the region, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs
o Ulster County represents 43% of that market
o Second homes generate $360 million in economic activity
▪ Source: Tourism Economics, “Economic Impact of Tourism in NY, 2019”

Use of Concrete.  The proposal states that the tunnels will also be using concrete in their building materials.  Concrete disintegrates in within decades.  This will put the reservoirs at grave risk of structural damage.  

The excuse for this facility is that it will use “non fossil fuels as energy”. As a society we cannot afford to sacrifice our NYC water system for a dam in the NYC watershed.   Pursuing instead conservation, encouragement of using less and more efficient energy is better than risking the water supply for millions of people.  Since this is a limited liability corporation who will pay for the probable intermediate term the great degradation, to the NYC water supply.

For human life the most important ingredient is good clean water.  The main mission of the government is to maintain the delivery good, clean, water to all. To live in a carbon neutral environment, conservation is the most important component.  The real question is how do we cut down our energy needs and how to become more efficient. The real reality is that we live in a finite world of resources.  Let us not squander that we have unfiltered mountain water for our well being and for all the other creatures  that also depend on it for life.  



