

Elizabeth Gumport, Brooklyn, NY.

To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in regard to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I strongly encourage FERC to reject their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. To grant it would not only violate the New York State Constitution but would cause extreme damage to the environment, disrupt local communities, and compromise the safety and purity of New York City’s drinking water.

As stated above, the proposal clearly violates the New York State Constitution. Article XIV guarantees that the Catskill Forest Preserve “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. To destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land would be an ethical and environmental abomination and would set a horrific precedent for protected lands across the country.

Once construction is complete, there would be additional environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. This can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. 

Of crucial importance is the fact that Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

I urge you to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Gumport


