

Mark Bernard, Kingston, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

As Hudson Valley native, I am concerned about the proposal submitted by Premium Energy Holdings in their quest to construct a pumped storage system based on the Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir.  I ask FERC to reject Premium's request for a preliminary permit of their project P-15056.

While I do appreciate the usefulness of energy storage for our grid, the location chosen is terribly irresponsible with respect to risks to NYC's drinking water, and the area's rare, forever-wild contiguous wildlife habitat.

The first red flag that caught my eye was Premium's unabashedly false contention that their proposal is for a closed-loop system. It's obviously an open-loop system; as it involves the Esopus Creek, Ashokan Reservoir, and Ashokan Watershed. Just on the merits of Premium Energy Holdings having lied in order to meet NYS' preference for closed-loop storage solutions, I think they've demonstrated either incompetence, or a breach of good faith.

The second red flag is that they would even attempt a site with such a sensitive ecology, which further influences the public health of New York City.  Management of turbidity and sediment is already a challenge for the NYC Bureau of Water Supply.  In order to keep the drinking supply clean; the upper Ashokan reservoir is used to buffer turbid waters from entering the lower reservoir after heavy storms.  This allows sediment dumped from the Esopus to settle before being released in the lower reservoir.  Creating a new source of turbidity, operating on a never-ending 24 cycle, would certainly cause insurmountable problems for water delivery from the reservoir; since it takes more than 24 hours of buffering to allow suspended particles to settle.

I'm not as much of an environmentalist as others, but I would be remiss if I didn't mention that the State Constitution explicitly declares this area "shall be forever kept as wild forest lands," and not "be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private."  Shouldn't that be enough of a reason on its own?

Please reject Premium Energy's proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Yours,

Mark Bernard
49 Fischer Ave
Kingston, NY 12401
845-658-8555

