

Ricarda O'Conner, Chichester, NY.
To:

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

I am writing in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

To begin with, Premium Energy’s application is deficient and inaccurate.

It is deficient in that the application does not include by name two towns, Shandaken and Hunter, or a third county, Greene, that would be highly and negatively impacted by such a project. 

The application is inaccurate in that it claims that all three potential sites for the upper reservoir are situated on New York State land. That claim is only partially true. All three locations also straddle private property. In the Woodland Valley location alone over 80 homes and properties would be submerged. The Stony Clove location would completely flood the center of the hamlet of Lanesville and cut off State Route 214, a well-traveled main artery and one of only two roads that connect Rt. 28 in Ulster County to Rt. 23A in Greene County. There is nothing in Premium Energy’s application that addresses the loss of this important road, or makes provisions to reroute it.

But most of all, Premium Energy’s application is fraudulent. 

Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water, the Ashokan Reservoir, as the lower reservoir. The Ashokan is an open body of water continuously connected to naturally flowing water, the Esopus Creek. So in fact, Premium Energy’s proposal is for an “open-loop” pumped storage hydropower system, NOT for “closed-loop” as the company is falsely claiming, no doubt for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval.

All told, The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project has been submitted under false pretenses, is antithetical to the fundamentals of “Green Energy” and would have a long-term, negative impact on the lives of local community members and the fragile, preserved Catskill Watershed lands in which they have chosen to live.
Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Ricarda O’Conner

104 Schweitzer Road
Chichester, NY 12416
(917) 533-3748

