

Vivian Welton, Phoenicia, NY.
To:  Federal Energy Regulatory Agency
From:  Vivian Welton, 313 Old Rt. 28, Phoenicia, N.Y. 12464
Re:  P-15056-000 Premium Energy Pumped Storage Facility Proposal

I am requesting that you deny Premium Energy’s application for a permit to conduct feasibility studies for a proposed pumped storage facility on the Ashokan Reservoir.  There is no chance that this project could pass scrutiny and prove to be feasible.

This project would be disastrous for the ecology, economy, and survival of the Upstate New York Catskill Park area. It is clear that Premium Energy did not research the area before they created this plan.  Their plan description has flaws that make it plain that their engineers were unfamiliar with the proper design of a closed-loop hydroelectric plant (which it claims to be, but is not). Conducting an excavation of immense size next to the only drinking water source (unfiltered!) for millions of people apparently did not seem a potential problem.  The fact that the lands in question could not, and would not be conveyed, leased, or given access to for such a use did not seem to register on their radar, even after they had been informed of that fact by New York City.  

Many valuable and endangered species of wildlife would be at risk by the project, regardless of where in the Catskill Park and surrounding area it is located.  The Esopus Creek, which conveys the water into the Ashokan Reservoir, is a fragile ecosystem, prone to flooding and drought, with unstable banks.  It is home to Bald Eagles, endangered Eastern Timber Rattlesnakes, and is a world-famous trout fishing stream.  The economy of the area depends on tourism, which centers on the pristine stream, and the unspoiled beauty of the mountains, which remain “forever wild” by provision of the New York State Constitution.

Premium Energy may claim that their proposed hydroelectric project could be fine-tuned to be feasible, energy-efficient, or a net positive for the environment.  Please do not subscribe to such foolishness.  I say this with respect for your leadership as the Federal Energy Regulatory Agency, charged with protecting our precious natural resources and acting for the benefit of all.

Yours truly,
Vivian Welton, Phoenicia, NY



