

John Lamberty, Oconomowoc, WI.
After an in-depth review of the application submitted by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, requesting a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, Docket No. P-15056-000, I recommend the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC decline the request. This recommendation is based the inconsistencies and irrelevant statements placed throughout the application, in what I view as an attempt to dissuade the reviewer. 
Specific examples: 
On page 12 it is stated, "... produce a maximum of 2700 GWh of annual energy production.", yet this is an application for a storage system, not a production system.  
Dividing 2700 GWh by 365 days per year, yields a storage system capacity cycle of 7400 MWh/day. On page 11 it is stated, "... operation at 800 MW would be possible for 12 hours of continuous output.", why state a 9600 MWh/day capacity cycle? 
Furthermore, a simple calculation of the required average hydraulic head to produce 9600MWh from 15800 acre-ft of water would be 594 feet, using 3.76616e-7 kWh/ft-lb energy conversion, 62.4 lbs/cubic foot water density, and 43560 cubic feet per acre-ft volume conversion. On page 11, 594 feet is the stated maximum, not average hydraulic head of the proposed Wittenberg Reservoir, which obviously would not work. 
In addition, throughout the application an absolute maximum potential hydraulic head of 914 feet is stated, instead of the required average, I believe in an attempt to elude the reviewer with regard to the actual volume of water required for daily cycling.  
Lastly the first sentence of the second paragraph on page 9, "The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop.".  What exactly is the intent of this statement?  I believe it is an attempt to elude the reviewer into the belief that the proposed project is for a closed loop Pumped-storage Hydropower (PSH) system.  Using the U.S. Department of Energy’s definition, "PSH capabilities can be characterized as open loop—where there is an ongoing hydrologic connection to a natural body of water—or closed loop, where the reservoirs are not connected to an outside body of water.", the proposal clearly is not closed-loop.  The existing Ashokan reservoir is currently connected to naturally flowing water features and the proposed upper reservoirs would be created by placing dams into naturally flowing water features. Excess water flow in the region surrounding both reservoirs would continue to rely on existing water features as well as suffer from daily flow modulation as a result of PSH operation. 
With this level and appearance of elusive statement inclusion, intended to elude the reviewer, I highly question the transparency and actual intent of the application.  Again I would like to repeat my recommendation for denial of the application.  
Sincerely, John

