

Gillian Luongo, Hunter, NY.
To the Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission,

I am writing to you in opposition of the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, to construct a massive new reservoir, dam, and underground power station in the Catskill region.

While I am a supporter of efforts to move towards renewable energy, this proposal totally disregards the deep history and importance of Catskills region to local communities and visitors alike, not to mention ignoring the protections stated in the NYS Constitution. 

The Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885, and the NYS Constitution explicitly states that the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands, [and] shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

The forests around the proposed sites rank among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, and are considered Status 2 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”

It would be tragic if Energy Holdings Premium, a California company, was given permission to come to NY and trample on our state Constitution and protections. 

Additionally, with the recent pandemic effecting our way of life, many New York City residents and others from surrounding areas, have newly discovered the Catskills in searching out places to enjoy safely outdoors. This new-found tourism has been a boost to local businesses, hotels, restaurants, and activity companies. This has truly been a silver lining to a sad and difficult time, and a project like this will only damage that positive revival of tourism and halt its growth in its tracks. 

Finally, the devastation a project like this poses to our fragile eco-system would be tragic. Wildlife, fish, birds, bald eagles and the very water system that New York City relies on would be impacted negatively when, again, per the Constitution, all are protected.

I urge the FERC to say NO to this proposal. Our land is protected and must stay that way.

Sincerely,

Gillian Luongo


