

Robert Lamberty, Olivebridge, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water, and a relatively costly alternative that is likely not worth the investment.

I purchased by home in Olivebridge in 2016. Why Olivebridge, you might ask? Because it is on the boarder of Catskill Park; a small, majestic area of New York that I fell in love with after my elder sister toured Bard college located just across the Hudson. The Catskills offer an extraordinary connection with nature with its hundreds of thousands of protected acres of land, gorgeous mountains, seemingly endless supply of recreational trails, and abundance of wildlife. This area, only two hours away from NYC, has managed to remain rural and free of most environmentally devastating projects, albeit we have power lines, hardly enough cell towers (I hope it stays this way), and the existing network of reservoirs that supply water to NYC. The proposed pump storage project with its additional reservoir, water connection line, and high-tension wires, however, should not be added to this exception list. The construction and operation of such a project here is both more harmful to the preserved environment and costlier to the operators, making it a project  that should not be granted approval to move forward.

I understand that the shift towards renewables require battery like systems so that power can be delivered during peak demand and during times that energy generation sources are not available. Are pumped storage hydroelectric projects really the best solution to that problem? If they are, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.

The completed project would greatly harm the environment due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. Plus, Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Connecting to the water supply of NYC would undoubtedlymake this project have higher construction and running costs than alternative locations. The Ashokan reservoir is currently fully secured by NYC police with constant surveillance. Any connected reservoir would need the same level of security. This project is a net user of energy and relies on only the differential of energy prices between peak and non-peak power rates to make any revenue stream. Does it really make sense to attempt this type of project connected to the NYC water supply where it would be much more expensive relative to alternative construction sites?

As a last point to make in opposition to Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, it must be pointed out that their proposal does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Rob Lamberty

