

Judith Coutinho, WEST SHOKAN, NY.
I am Judith Coutinho. As a private citizen, I oppose the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, P-15056-000.  I am a long-time property owner and resident of West Shokan, Ulster County, New York. 

The need for utility-power sources is very real. The need to protect our unique ecosystems and natural resources in The Catskill Park is very real. The need to protect the Ashokan Reservoir, the largest unfiltered municipal water system in the country, is very real. There is so much to balance. There are so many points against the proposed hydro-electric project. I hope the Commission agrees this proposal should stop - now and forever. 

The Catskill Forest Preserve in Ulster County is special--a large, unfragmented area, protected since 1885. It is ecologically valuable, a rare East Coast habitat for large animals. For both resident and visitor, it is like the NY State equivalent of a National Park. It is protected by the NY State Constitution and uses like this power plant are expressly excluded. The Preserve includes endangered animals and plants. Thousands of people outside the county, state and country come here year round for recreation, rest and natural beauty. Easy accessibility from major metropolitan areas makes it a unique resource. Our local economy depends heavily on these visitors because agriculture and manufacturing have shrunk severely. 

A counter argument might be the structures for the power plant will only occupy a small portion of the Preserve. It is a poor argument because we know, from scientific research, that disturbing even a small portion of an ecosystem by constructing invasive, large structures has enormous negative ripple effects. This project will significantly degrade this habitat, which NY State Forest Condition index ranks in the top 1%.  As a State Forest Preserve, it is ranked by USGS "Gap Analysis Program" as Status 1, a category the DoE says to avoid for development.  Also, the proposed sites are all in Audubon Society's Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area.  

Those are big overviews. Looking deeper, the balance gets worse.  
Aquatic habitats will be devastated in and around any of the proposed reservoir sites, wiping out prime areas for trout and other sport fish, probably spreading ecology-damaging invasive plants (e.g. "rock snot").   

Operation of the power plant will cause sediment deposit changes, stressing the streams inhabitants (fish and their food) and t to the water in the Ashokan Reservoir. Tunnel construction and operation will produce additional sediment.  

Construction issues: Local roads and bridges are over 100 years old, built when the Ashokan Reservoir was built; this area was extremely rural, sparsely populated, relying on agriculture and forestry. The roads & bridges will not take the daily, long-term strain of large construction equipment and work crews. In addition to the abuse and destruction of our roads and bridges, the noise contamination and contamination of construction materials will pollute the streams and the land for miles around the sites, and drive off animals and tourists alike.  

Re: "closed loop" and "open loop" hydro-electric generating systems, I find a discrepancy between the proposal submitted to you and the publicly available descriptions of the systems. A "closed loop" system is independent from any free-flowing water source, and an "open loop" is continuously connected to a naturally flowing water feature. This system is an "open loop" with an add-on. The streams that feed the Ashokan are still flowing. The Esopus Creek enters the West Basin & exits the East Basin. Gravity-feed flow carries the water 92 miles to Westchester--that's FLOW, even if you can't see it because the Reservoir is so large! This was sloppy engineering or a deliberate attempt to obscure reality; either should disqualify the proposal.

I focused on the objective, observable and/or documented information that supports my opposition. I have a personal stake in opposing this flawed project: the dam for the preferred site of the upper reservoir is only hundreds of yards upstream from my home. I can never replace this home, which my husband and I helped my parents build, hammer in hand, 50 years ago.  Even if I wanted to sell this property today, no buyer would pay me what it's worth because this matter is still "open" and a threat.  

This is the human side of the damage this project is already inflicting. I feel Premier Energy treated our communities the way empires and big corporations treat third-world countries: invading with no consideration for the people already living there, and taking resources because they have the financial power and political power to do what they please…all for the sake of "profit."  Premium Energy is cashing-in on a real need, fishing for likely locations that meet geological/geographic conditions, regardless of other considerations then submitting flawed proposals. I imagine the Commission is swamped with proposals of this kind.  Reliable sources told me that not a single person from the companies putting this proposal forward has set foot in Ulster County.  Premium Energy did not even communicate their intention to the townships involved before they filed the proposal, a significant sign of their disrespect for the communities they expect to invade. The research for the proposal was long-distance and impersonal, yet the impact of their actions is very immediate, very local and very, very personal for me and hundreds of others. As you review the proposal, please take into account Premier Energy's level of ethical behavior--low-to-none. It's hard to establish a quantitative value for ethical behavior, yet I ask that it be one of the factors you consider as a predictor trust-worthiness and of future outcomes if you allow this proposal to move forward.

Respectfully, Judith Coutinho

 

