

Michael Taffet, OAKLAND, CA.
Dear Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and Interested Parties-

I am writing this letter to express my strong opposition to Premium Energy Holdings LLC’s Preliminary Permit Application for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project and recommend that it be denied. Growing up in Brooklyn, I spent many of my summers in the Catskills and harbor a rich appreciation of its unique natural beauty. I continue to regularly visit the Catskills. As a licensed New York professional geologist, a hydrogeologist with over 35 years of experience in groundwater and surface water hydrology, and an environmental scientist, I have a deep understanding of the significant negative impacts this project would have on the surrounding and downstream ecosystem and surface waters, including the Ashokan Reservoir and Esopus Creek. Admittedly, at this current conceptual design stage, any analysis is preliminary, and the actual specific plans would be necessary to do a proper evaluation. However, the current “conceptual design” as presented provides ample information for making some points that would apply regardless of the specifics of an engineered design. Many of the points I make have already been communicated by others, and in my judgment, they are correct and relevant.
This is not a “closed-loop system” as claimed by the applicant. The construction and ongoing operation of the proposed upper reservoir and tunnel would certainly increase sediment transport and turbidity within the waters of the Ashokan Reservoir. It would also increase sediment transport and erosion in the Esopus Creek and tributaries.  Even if these impacts could somehow be minimized during upper reservoir, tunnel, and overhead power line construction, they would be unavoidable during normal operations. The increased turbidity within the Ashokan Reservoir would degrade the water quality to the point where filtration would be necessary before the water could be used as a potable source. The rising and falling surface water levels would adversely affect stream and adjacent terrestrial ecology in the Ashokan Reservoir, Esopus Creek, and tributaries. Erosion and sedimentation regimes would change and would negatively impact the drainages. Trout and other aquatic organisms would be seriously threatened, and valuable breeding habitat could be eliminated.
The Catskills Forest Preserve is a relatively pristine and special natural resource within New York State. As is well-know, it is protected under the State constitution and is designated as Status 1 land under the U.S. Geological Survey’s (USGS’s) Gap Analysis Program. This status precludes its development for hydropower under the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Hydropower Vision. Any changes to surface water and associated land management within the Catskill Preserve would require a constitutional amendment, passed by the State legislature, followed by a public referendum.  
As is common knowledge, the Catskill Preserve is especially important as it consists of over 700,000 continuous acres of wildlife habitat in a region that is being increasingly developed. The three specific areas being considered for the project are home to species that are designated as protected, and the project would likely impact threatened species as well. Additionally, the Reserve as a whole is designated as an important bird area by the Audubon Society. 
I recognize that the federal and State agencies, and New York City (NYC) are all in agreement that the burning of carbon fuels needs to be reduced, but the proposed project is not a sensible net-positive way to do that. Beyond the obvious inefficiencies these pumped storage projects entail in their construction and use of cheap night-time energy to “cleanly” generate more expensive and high-demand daytime energy, the deleterious impacts on the water-supply of NYC; on surface water, avian, and terrestrial ecology and fisheries; and on sedimentation and erosion within and adjacent to streams are quite obvious and must be prevented. I implore FERC to deny this permit application.

Sincerely, 

Michael J. Taffet, PhD, PG




