

Lisa Hubbard, West Shokan, NY.
I urge you to decline Premium Energy Holdings application for an add-on hydroelectric plant (FERC project and sub- docket number: P-15056:000). This proposal is hastily thrown together by a small business interest that seems to be throwing out as many hydro plant proposals as possible, with little or no preparation or research into the lands affected.

Premium Energy Holdings has misrepresented this project as a closed-loop system, presumably in an effort to qualify for streamlined FERC approval. In reality, this proposal includes the construction of a new dammed reservoir and tunnels, making it an add-on system. Closed-loop projects are considered by FERC to have a lower environmental impact. This misrepresentation downplays the environmental impact of the project. 

This project would be constructed within the Catskills Forest Preserve. The preserve was created in 1885 in Ulster County through Article XIV of the NYS Constitution. The state constitution requires that this land "be forever kept as wild forest lands”. Such lands shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private. Any hydroelectric plant built on these lands would require a change to the NYS Constitution, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, and submitted to the public in a referendum. Such amendments rarely pass, and, as this is in highly preserved land, this may be fiercely opposed by the public. 

Additionally, lands in the State Forest Preserve in the Catskills are considered Status 1 under USGS “Gap Analysis Program”. According to the Dept. of Energy's Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development”.

All three areas proposed here are within Audubon Society's Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area. Additionally, rapid fluctuations in water and changes in stream sediment would destroy important trout habitat. 
 
At least one town, West Shokan, would have to be relocated for the second time in its history, the first being during the building of the Ashokan Reservoir in 1907-1915. This may be an impressive force in galvanizing public opinion against the project.

Premium Energy seems to have thrown this together with no awareness of the specific area and little or no research.

