

Ina Kozel, Lanesville, NY.
		Dear Sirs.

	 I am a supporter of  renewable energy projects, however the Catskill locations proposed are untenable.  As a 25 year resident of Lanesville NY, I would like to state my strong opposition to the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings.  All the local municipalities are strongly opposed to this project.  Given the environmental and economic impact and political and legal hurdles to overcome,  this project should be stopped  before further investments make it more difficult to halt.

	The proposed sites are within the Catskill Forest Preserve, which according to the NYS constitution “ shall be forever kept wild forest”. Changing that would require a constitutional amendment. The original desire to protect the catskill’s  precious land resource and should not be altered.  All the proposed sites fall within the Status 1 designation under the USGS Gap Analysis Program, which voids development according to the Department of Energy’s “Hydropower Vision”. The streams are already fragile and any further development threatens the local ecology and fauna. The proposal by Premium Energy classifies the project as a closed loop system. This is misleading at best and deceitful at worst. The project is an add- on system with a much stronger environmental impact.  The affect on the existing reservoir could be extremely detrimental. 

	The project would adversely affect the streams and waterways by increasing turbidity.  The streams are already fragile and any further development threatens the local ecology and fauna.  Recreational fishing is a prime attraction for this area and helps the local economy flourish. The project jeopardizes trout breeding grounds and falls within the  “ Audubon’s Catskill Peak Important Bird Area”. We cannot afford to threaten these resources. The turbidity also puts at risk the quality of the drinking water that serves 9 million residents of NYC

	The proposed site intersecting Route 214 in Lanesville is a designated “scenic byway” and a primary thoroughfare connecting difficult to access portions of the mountains.  Disrupting or voiding this passage would increase travel times and adversely affect the tourism and commercial economy of the region.  The ski areas of Hunter and Windham would have access cut in half.  

		This proposal will do more damage than good.  Please stop it.

		Ina Kozel

