

March Gallagher, kingston, NY.
April 12, 2021
Kimberly D. Bose
Secretary Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St., NE 
Washington, DC 20426 

RE: COMMENTS on the Application for Preliminary Permit Ashokan Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project, FERC No. P-15056-000 Esopus Creek, Bush Kill Creek, Ulster County, New York

Dear Ms. Bose:

As the elected fiscal and programmatic watchdog for Ulster County, and on behalf of the 177,000 people of Ulster County, I am writing to request you reject the Application for Preliminary Permit filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, for the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project located on Esopus Creek, Bush Kill Creek, and the Ashokan Reservoir in Ulster County, New York.  I urge you to deny the application for the following reasons: 

1)	Federal energy policy should not preempt state conservation goals. The project, proposed for lands conserved for water quality and ecologically sensitive habitat goals, would require taking state and city owned and protected lands.  By its very nature the proposed application pits these public priorities against renewable energy generation goals and sets deleterious precedent that sacrifices invaluable public resources necessary for the planetary and human health. In the Catskills region, the conservation water quality and ecological protection goals are constitutionally protected and should not be preempted by federal energy policy. 

2)	The project would jeopardize the water quality for nine million residents of the metropolitan New York City region (including residents of Ulster County both on the aqueduct and drawing from surface waters downstream from the Ashokan). The Ashokan Reservoir, part of the Catskill water supply system has been providing water since 1915 and is part of the largest unfiltered fresh water supply system in the country. The fundamental monetary value of this irreplaceable water supply infrastructure to the City of New York, the State of New York or the United States of America cannot be quantified. The project would severely impact water quality by increasing the turbidity of the water not only during construction but through ongoing operations which will continue to create new sediment load and resuspend existing sediment in the system on a continuous basis.

3)	Significant ecological resources should be protected. The Catskill Park and the Catskill Forest Preserve, a combination of public and private protected lands, serves as irreplicable, contiguous ecological habitat and unfragmented forest lands. Not only does the region provide critical habitat, carbon sequestration, and natural water supply filtration, the Catskill Park also serves as proximate recreational and environmental resource for the greater New York City metropolitan region. 

For all the reasons briefly described here, I respectfully urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny the application of Premium Energy Holdings. Thank you for the opportunity to comment.
Sincerely,
 
March S. Gallagher, Esq.
Ulster County Comptroller





