

Jonathan and Madelaine Piel, Phoenicia, NY.
April 11, 2021


Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Re: P-15056:000


Dear Secretary Bose:

  We respectfully request that FERC denies the application from Premium Energy Holdings, LLC (Premium) for a Preliminary License to build a hydroelectric generating facility associated with New York City’s Ashokan Reservoir, located in New York State’s Ulster County.
   The building of this facility would violate both the New York State Constitution and New York State law.  Premium proposes to build the facility in the Catskill State Forest and on land owned by New York City. The Catskill State Forest Preserve that the State’s Constitution designates as “…forever wild…”  The area is also a Status 2 region and is therefore protected from building or development.
    In addition to its impact on the Catskill region the construction and operation of the Premium facility would threaten the quality of New York City’s water supply. Specifically, the pumping of water from and into the Ashokan’s west basin would create substantial turbidity, forcing New York City to invest hundreds of millions of dollars to develop, build and maintain a filtration system.
    The Premium proposal also suffers from numerous technical flaws. For example, Premium identifies the project as a “closed-loop” system.  In fact, it is an add-on system: the Ashokan Reservoir is fed by the Esopus Creek, which also exits from it into the Hudson River.
    The three proposed Catskill sites for this facility share these prohibitive flaws, as you will undoubtedly hear from the affected communities of both Ulster and Greene counties. 
    Thank you for your attention and—we hope—an affirmative response to this request to deny Premium’s application for a Preliminary License.

Sincerely,

Jonathan and Madelaine Piel

118 Muddy Brook Road
Phoenicia, New York 12464


