

Jim Sofranko, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Secretary Bose,

The Ashokan Pumped Storage application (P-15056) by Premium Energy Holdings LLC for a Preliminary Permit must be thoughtfully reconsidered by FERC. The application is fraught with misinformation and a basic lack of understanding of the very many legal obstacles the proposal presents. It is my contention the applicant must do their due diligence in providing a basic understanding and knowledge of the locations presented in their proposals before FERC to avoid unnecessary consideration. 

The lands described in the application are New York State forests legally and environmentally protected as forever wild in Article XlV of the NYS Constitution. The lands described are also all within the Catskill Forest Preserve with additional legal and environmental protections granted by New York State. The environmental protection afforded these lands is due to their uniqueness and widely documented ecological importance.

Additional lands, facilities, and water described in the application are under the control of the NYC Department of Environmental Protection. These lands, facilities and water resources are environmentally and legally protected by New York City, New York State, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The EPA Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986 and the 1997 Filtration Avoidance Determination and Memorandum of Understanding between NYC and the Coalition of Watershed Towns include specific environmental protections and install water protection programs necessary to maintain a safe drinking water supply for the 9 million residents of the City of New York. 

The use the Ashokan Reservoir, in what is erroneously described in the application as a "closed loop" pumped storage project, will dramatically increase water turbidity in the NYC water system. The Ashokan Reservoir was specifically designed in recognition of the natural sediment and turbidity problem in its tributaries. It is why the reservoir has an upper basin to contain sediment and turbidity. Using the upper basin of the reservoir for a pumped storage project will disturb over 100 years of sediment settled at its bottom. Increased turbidity compromises the ability of NYC to deliver safe drinking water. 

Any disturbance of the tributary streams and steep sloops of the Catskill Mountains additionally increases sediment and turbidity in the water system. The streams, steep slopes, and unstable soils have been identified and mapped by the Ashokan Watershed Stream Management Program. Ongoing erosion mitigation programs have been designed to help avoid sediment and turbidity in the streams. Sediment can transport pathogens and interfere with effectiveness of water filtration and disinfection. The problems of sediment and turbidity have been long recognized in the Catskill Watershed and any increase in turbidity will negatively affect the ability of NYC to provide clean and safe drinking water to its residents. 

This application has caused much distress to the residents of our towns. Plans have been put on hold with the future uncertain and deeply concerning all because of the deeply flawed and under-researched application before you. I respectfully request ask FERC to deny the application based on all of the above considerations.

Thank you.

Jim Sofranko
West Shokan, NY 

