

Augusta Gillespie, Brooklyn, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
 
I am writing to urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to build a hydroelectric power plan in New York’s Catskill Mountains.
 
I recognize the valuable and important role that hydroelectric power will play in our effort to mitigate climate change and reach the important climate goals set forth by both Governor Cuomo and the Biden Administration. That said, the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would destroy over 700,000 acres of pristine wildlife preserve, and would require significant energy to build. The US Energy Information Administration clearly states the trade-offs of hydroelectric plants, including the likelihood of increased carbon emissions in the construction phase. While the long life-cycle of Hydroelectric plants can sometimes offset the initial Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, this project is likely to net significant GHG emissions between now and 2050, and is not necessary to meet the demand response needs of New York State. Dedicated efforts to building retrofits, high efficiency heating and cooling upgrades, enrollment in remote demand response programs, and the adoption of local solar, will produce immediate reductions in both GHG emissions and peak energy use.
 
Clean energy sources are only one part of the climate solution. It is imperative that our efforts to ensure a clean energy future do not favor renewable energy proposals at the expense of biodiversity. The Catskill Forest Preserve, ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide and is clearly protected under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution which states that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Additionally, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” Allowing a preliminary permit for this project sets a dangerous precedent that protected lands can be converted in the name of “clean energy” with no consideration to holistic environmental impacts.
 
In addition to its negative effects on biodiversity and short-term GHG emissions, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities. This proposal would require the relocation of thousands of residents through eminent domain. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would likely have a hard time securing new housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County, and for homes that are available, prices are through the roof. Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.
 
But it’s not only local communities that would be impacted by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. The project could jeopardize the health of the Ashokan reservoir, which supplies 40% of New York City’s water supply.
 
As a last point to make in opposition to Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, it must be pointed out that their proposal does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?
 
Our country’s transition to renewable, clean energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.
 
Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
 
Sincerely,
 
Augusta Gillespie

