

Sorrel Brae Ahlfeld, Lanesville, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
 888 First St. NE, Room 1A 
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Sorrel Brae Ahlfeld
1245 Route 214
Lanesville, NY
12450

April 11, 2021


Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in reference to Premium Energy Holdings’ proposed hydro-electric project in New York’s Catskills State Park currently seeking approval from your Commission.

I am a resident of Lanesville, NY, one of three potential communities to be flooded should the project go through. But it is not as a resident concerned with my own property that I write to you today.

Instead I am deeply concerned that one of New York State’s oldest wilderness areas, protected from development by law in the State Constitution, may be irreversibly compromised by the extreme intrusions outlined in this proposal.

Alternative methods for generating energy are sorely needed in this country and I am a vocal supporter of moving to green energy solutions wherever possible. But this project is not what it seems. 

First, it is not a “closed loop” system as Premium Energy Holdings has claimed. It is what they call an “add on”. The years of necessary development they propose would wreak havoc on the local ecology, creating substantial destruction of existing natural and protected habitats.

Second, once operational, pumped storage raises and lowers water levels frequently and rapidly, creating turbidity up and down local streams and creeks that rank among the nations best trout fishing destinations. In addition, this turbidity pushes sediment downstream, eventually bringing it into the Ashokan Reservoir which, as you know, is a main component of New York City’s drinking water system, serving 9 million residents.

Finally, pumped storage itself is merely a stop-gap in the hunt for better sources of energy. Instead of creating a truly renewable resource that moves the country off of carbon-based fuels, pumped storage simply plays an economic shell game, pumping water when the rates are cheap in order to generate electricity from that water when the rates are more expensive.

I have no doubt this makes fiscal sense to a private company looking for short-term profit but, as a nation, we need to be thinking long-term, investing in the kinds of renewable projects that will bring us fully into a new, green economy. This project does not meet that standard.

I strongly encourage FERC to decline this request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. Not only would it negatively impact long-protected wilderness, imperil the clean and unfiltered drinking water of New York City, and disrupt hundreds of mountain communities along the way, but it is a cynical solution to a truly pressing problem.

Our nation deserves better.

Thank you for your time,

Sorrel Brae Ahlfeld


