

Jennifer Holz, Phoenicia, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in response to the deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of the DEP New York City’s drinking water supply.
We have lived in Woodland Valley, one of the proposed, for the last 35 years. We live just above the where the upper section of the dam would be. Has Premium Energy given any thought to how the remaining residents in  Woodland Valley would get in and out of the valley during the construction and after the dam is there?  We have done excavation here to build a small pond, and other building projects, The ground up here is riddled with clay layers, and we’ve had major slumping with just minor excavation. It slides on itself—very unstable.  The clay layer is so prevalent, that even the littlest rain, can make the streams run brown for weeks. The area is intertwined with Forever Wild NYS DEC State Land, and also is a major trout spawning habitat.  It is rich in history, where everyone from writer John Burroughs to Roosevelt would come to escape into nature. Besides living here, we also operate the  small Holz Farm, on the site of historic Larkin Farm—dating back to the days of John Burroughs. Besides agriculture, we also do photo shoots and workshops here. This would not only devastate our business and livelihood, but also wreck our bucolic existence with nature.

While there’s no doubt that pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects may possibly play a role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” You are not even allowed to even cut a twig on state land. The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country. There is NYS DEC campsite plus trailhead to the high peaks at the end our our dead end road. This is enjoyed by thousands of people each summer. The legendary trailheads are open all year. What’s going to happen to those?

In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities. Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a process that already displaced thousands when the Ashokan was constructed 100 years ago. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would likely have a hard time securing new housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County, and for homes that are available, prices are through the roof due to many people moving up the area during the pandemic. Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, hunting, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills.
As a last point to make in opposition to Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, it must be pointed out that their proposal does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?
Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.
Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Best, 
Jennifer Holz


