

Caryn Carter, Olivebridge, NY.







Caryn Carter 
427 Upper Samsonville Rd.
Olivebridge, NY 12461


Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the ill-conceived proposal by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s famed Catskills. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the pristinely preserved forests, streams, and wildlife of the Catskill Mountains. It would risk the purity of the water supply in the area, and subsequently, compromise New York City’s drinking water. Without question, it be highly disruptive to our local communities.

Premium Energy’s remarkably flawed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy is calling for in the “Hydropower Vision” plan. Premium falsely claims this project to be “closed-loop” rather than what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water, as in the case, for our nation’s largest city. Premium knows that closed-loop pumped storage projects are eligible for streamlined FERC approval because they have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds. How can we possibly trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for FERC approval?

It is vital that our country transition to renewable energy, however the uniquely protected Catskill Forest Preserve, established in 1885, must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Unlike most of our increasingly fragmented environment, the Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat. According to the New York State Forest Condition Index, the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide. The lands are considered Status 2 under USGS “Gap Analysis Program” which provides that development should be avoided. To destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the United States.

If the construction goes forward, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. As Premium Energy’s proposal utilizes an “add-on” system, the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. This can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir. 

In addition to affecting the wildlife, the Ashokan Reservoir supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. As the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset.

Premium Energy is a California company that has not considered how its proposal would damage local communities in New York. Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a process that already displaced thousands of people from their homesteads when the Ashokan was constructed 100 years ago. This century-old violation has left multigenerational scarring that still lingers fresh today. All residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would likely have a hard time securing new housing in the area, which is in limited supply and has escalated in value, particularly in the past few years as the area has become a coveted escape for NYC residents.

Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s affect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in 2019, with 43% of that represented by Ulster County where the proposed project is located. Tourism generates $1.6 billion for the region, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs that are at stake. Premium Energy’s project, which includes flooding 200 acres of land, erecting a 300 foot high dam, and stretching 230V high-tension transmission lines for nearly 13 miles, would dramatically impact the area’s natural beauty. It would create limitations to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, like winter skiing and summer concerts at Hunter Mountain. World-renowned arts and cultural events in the towns of Olive, Woodstock, Shandaken, Hunter and Tannersville would all be adversely effected. Ultimately, Premium Energy’s financial goals would have dire consequences for businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not threaten incredibly important natural resources, destroy protected wilderness and wildlife habitats, and displace vulnerable communities in our beloved Catskills. 

Please deny

