

Valerie Linet, Olivebridge, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to express my serious concerns and dismay about the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains.  I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, due to: the problems presented by a flawed proposal which will negatively impact the health of the Esopus Creek, as well as the quality of drinking water drawn from the Hudson River and Ashokan Reservoir. In addition, there would be negative impact on the people who live on, vacation in, and drink water from impacted lands and bodies of water. The proposed plan would also have a damaging impact on a delicate ecosystem which has been preserved “forever wild.” Finally, it is an expensive and wasteful energy “solution” that uses more power than it stores. 

The movement of water in pumped storage can impact the sediment regime and ecology of the tributaries to the Esopus Creek as well as to the Esopus, itself, which is a valuable trout breeding habitat. The Esopus which feeds the Ashokan Reservoir, is an essential part of New York City’s drinking water, is already highly affected by excessive sediment, and thus there is a concern for the unfiltered water relied upon by the city’s 9.5 million residents as well as Hudson Valley community members.

We must not sacrifice the ecologically precious and formally protected Catskill Forest Preserve in the process of securing new energy sources. The U.S. Department of Energy has itself recognized that development of such lands should not occur.   Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” We must protect our “forever wild” land, for its own sake, and to set precedent for future projects. 

The legal and social ramifications of building a new reservoir in populated areas of the Catskills are significant. Landowners would be forced to allow the building of the reservoirs, most likely by eminent domain. Community displacement and seizing of private property, as well as flooding over 200 acres, much of which are preserved forests on protected state land, would be destructive to the human communities  and ecology.  How will Premium Energy address the enormous issue of getting the NYS legislature to create an amendment to the state constitution to allow a project like this on protected land?

Lastly, pumping water to the proposed upper reservoir could require more power than what’s generated as the water flows back down, and is therefore a process that could burn through cheap power in order to make costly power. 

I am aware that the transition to renewable, green-energy sources is necessary and  challenging, though it must not come at the expense of environmental protection and community health. Premium Energy has chosen an incredibly unsuitable location for this proposed pumped storage project.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Valerie Linet

 


