

Julia Rose, phoenicia, NY.

I am writing regarding Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to build a hydroelectric pumped storage plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains (Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056). Their plan is ill conceived, poorly researched and should be denied, before wasting further time, money, and effort by FERC and all other parties involved.

I believe it is important that our nation move towards renewable green-energy sources, but this must not happen at the expense of the environment, protected wildlife, local economies, and families who will be displaced from their homes. 

It is my understanding that pumped storage facilities such as this are cost IN-effective- resulting in a near net loss of energy because the water has to be pumped back up to the upper reservoir, not to mention the astronomical costs of the infrastructure. The financial expense is only one aspect of the price of this project. Although their proposal claims to be a closed loop system, even a lay person as myself can see that this project is an open loop/add on loop system. The mere fact that they are mis-representing the facts of their proposal is a red flag about their intentions and ethics. Their utter lack of consideration for the many precluding factors that should have been investigated prior to submitting the application for preliminary study is testament to their disregard for due diligence and for the costs incurred to FERC, the government, and taxpayers. 

1.	The proposed sites for the dam are in lands protected under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, which clearly states that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”

Additionally, the US Geological Survey has designated the Catskills Park State Forest Preserve as Status 2 lands. According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”


2.	The negative impact on the Ashokan watershed, its surrounding lands, and the wildlife that make their home in these protected lands would be devastating. The massive construction project and rapidly fluctuating water levels of the pumped storage system would have dire consequences for the multitude of species that live in the area, including, but not limited to the trout for which the steams of the Catskills are known nationwide, many birds, fauna and flora .

3.	Water supply to 9.5 million people in New York would be in jeopardy as the Ashokan Reservoir (which would serve as the lower reservoir in this project) supplies 40% of the city’s water (approximately 1 billion gallons a day). This project would threaten the largest unfiltered water supply in the US, and compromise billions of dollars of existing infrastructure.
4.	Eco tourism and outdoor activities (hiking, camping, fishing) are a major source of revenue for the Catskills. Much of this would be damaged and destroyed by the proposed dam. This would impact nearly 20,000 jobs and put a major dent in a $1.5 billion + industry, diminishing tax revenue for the state as well. 
Please deny Premier Energy Holdings request for a preliminary permit to build an add on loop system pump storage hydro-electric plant in the protected lands of the Catskill Preserve (Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056). 

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Julia Rose














