

Amanda Insall, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose;

We are responding to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. 

We urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, because as we argue below this entire project would be destructive to the environment, to local communities, and would possibly put the purity of NYC’s drinking water at risk.

A century ago the land in the Catskills Forest Preserve was protected. In that hundred years many more lands have been added to the preserve as ‘forever wild’ status 1 protected lands. This is the highest level of protection. I don’t know if the company has studied the site enough to have reviewed the NY State constitution in reference to the Catskills Forest preserve, and the long and involved legal process of removing protected lands from the preserve for use by a for-profit company. These lands are protected for a reason and 100 years of conservation efforts show the importance of the Catskill Forest Preserve as an asset to our area and New York State in general. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

The lands are protected to ensure the purity and clarity of the Ashokan reservoir as an unfiltered water source for New York City. The city presently receives 40% of its water from the unfiltered water source of the Ashokan reservoir. The high-level protection of this area also serves to maintain the system and ecology of the general area which is veined with streams and tributaries. The town of West Shokan is involved in commissioning stream studies and has already invested a lot of research and and a big engineering project to preserve the ecology and wildlife of the area and to prevent extreme flooding in Boiceville and the West Shokan town hall area that we have experienced during recent hurricane events. Our citizens are highly invested in the environmental preservation of our area. I have talked to a number of neighbors who are firmly opposed to a project which would seem to wreak havoc on our efforts to preserve the integrity of our forest lands and the purity of the Ashokan reservoir water source.

I am skeptical that a for-profit company from California which does not seem to have sufficiently studied the site and the level of protection it currently enjoys will be able to make environmentally sensitive decisions to preserve the assets of the Catskill Forest preserve and the Ashokan reservoir.

Even after construction is complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is notorious for wreaking havoc on nearby stream ecology and on both aquatic and land habitats, because within a pumped storage system the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. In addition to affecting wildlife, this can alter the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. 

Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. 

Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

Lastly, such a project would be bad for the community as a whole.  Not only would it lead to seizure of community homes and private property in the immediate area by the process of eminent domain. But this is what happened in this local area 100 years ago when the Ashokan Reservoir was built—and has traumatized this region ever since.  Combined with a current Ulster County housing shortage and an inflated real estate market, what will happen to those who lose their homes and property because of this? 

Please deny Premium Energy’s permit for a feasibility study for their proposed project, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. Our neighbors and our elected officials and their active voices have already judged this project to be unfeasible for the protected area of the Catskill Forest Preserve.

Sincerely,
Amanda Insall
West Shokan, NY

