

Robert Marschall, Long Valley, NJ.
I’m voicing my opposition to build a pumped storage hydro plant in the Catskills.

The proposed project impacts some highly protected areas of the Catskills and affects wildlife habitats of multiple protected species in all three potential development areas. All three areas impact highly preserved lands and stream ecologies. All three are trout breeding waters. All three are within Audubon’s Catskills Peaks Important Bird Areas. All are habitats for some plant, bird, bat and snake species on NY’s “threatened”, “special concern”, or “greatest conservation need” lists including the bog orchid, northern long-eared bat, scarlet tanager, wood thrush, black-throated blue warbler, and three hawk species.

Although NY State needs to consider green energy alternatives, this project is not the kind of innovation the state seeks. The Catskills and the NYC watershed are not the areas for a pumped storage hydro project.

Premium Energy appears to be completely unaware of the protected areas in which it proposes its upper reservoir for the project. 

The city of New York will never tolerate any muddling with its watershed that could adversely affect the quality of drinking water for 9 million residents. The City will tie ribbons of red tape around the project and will suffer years of legal challenges before it concedes to this development.

New York City is only half the battle. 

The proposed areas of development are an extremely protected state preserve, a Status 1 area according to USGS. The Catskills Forest Preserve are protected by the state constitution and “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands.” Any changes to land management in the State Forest Preserve must be passed by constitutional amendment and then voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, and THEN submitted for public referendum. 

Does Premium Energy have the mettle to endure the wrath of the City, the State, and the public? If by miracle the project survived the onslaught of legal challenges by the City and State, every NYC resident and every fisher, hunter, hiker, and bird watcher will shout this down in every form of media available.


