

Dawn S Peters, PHOENICIA, NY.
Dawn Peters, Chichester, NY

As a resident of both Chichester, NY in Ulster County, and Riverdale, NY in the Bronx, I am writing to voice my opposition to granting a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings. 

I am unequivocally opposed to the profoundly flawed proposal by Premium Energy to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Forest Preserve. 

I urge FERC to decline Premium's request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, P-15056. 

Premium Energy does not provide the kind of innovation sought by the Department of Energy, given that its proposal is deficient and misleading. Premium Energy's claim it will build a closed-loop system is false. A closer study indicates PREMIUM'S PROPOSAL IS AN ADD-ON PROJECT. The upper reservoir is added to an already existing lower reservoir connected to a natural water source - the upper Ashokan Reservoir. As you know, such an add-on system's operational impact on the environment and aquatic life would be significant and damaging.

The proposed Stoney Clove pumped storage upper reservoir, located in Lanesville, would be approximately 1.50 miles north of my home on Stoney Clove Creek streamside property. Built by my grandmother in 1940, this home has been in our family for eighty-one years and four generations. The CEMENT BARRIER would be about 2,600 feet in length and 212 feet high. EFFECTIVELY CHOKING the Stoney Clove Creek and subjecting its streambank to rapid fluctuations of water, altering the streambank and aquatic habitat of any plant or animal living in this vital cold water stream.

Scientists, engineers, surveyors, watershed maintainers, and other professionals in the upstate watershed are already concerned that global warming produces uncertainty for the Ashokan Reservoir's sustainability due to evaporation, heat events, and decreasing snowpack. According to NYC's Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), the city's water department, the Ashokan Reservoir, currently meets NYC's needs by providing 40% of NYC's water supply. Considering the uncertainties of climate change, NO FEASIBILITY STUDY NOR COMPUTER MODELLING can predict the consequences of a construction site and eventual dam, tunnels, high tension wires, turbines, etc., on the delicate balance of nature and the health of the Catskill Forest Preserve and NYC's drinking water. 

Forests act as a filter. This natural filter, the Catskill Forest Preserve, keeps NYC's unfiltered drinking water system clean by preventing the runoff of chemicals and soil into waterways and eventually the upper Ashokan Reservoir, which already holds 100 years of silt. The proposed pumped storage project would undoubtedly increase turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir. Turbidity is already a big issue for NYC's DEP. Locally, constructing the upper reservoir in Lanesville would surely impact the area's water table, individual wells, MY WELL, stream turbidity, and water temperature. Altering the sediment regime in Stoney Clove Creek, a tributary of the Esopus, will transform the sediment regime in the Esopus. The Esopus, a source of life and sustenance, would inevitably be forever changed, destroying one of the Catskill's most vital trout waters and NYC water supply. 

While I support our nation's transition to renewable energy and recognize pumped storage as a critical component of our clean energy future, I believe the Catskills region is not the right location for such a project. The right project in the wrong place. This project would primarily impact state land within the Blue Line of the Catskills State Park, designated as forever wild. Pristinely preserved state forest land, streams, flora, fauna, and the New York City water supply are at risk. Much of the harm would be unlawful and in violation of the New York State Constitution. 

The company falsely states that the project will take place outside the protected Catskills Preserve boundaries. A closer study indicates that its proposed sites are located squarely within the Catskills Forest Preserve (established 1885). This area is covered under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, which deems the lands shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private. Any change in the management of State Forest Preserves has to be passed by constitutional amendment, which involves both state legislative approval and a public referendum. Otherwise, it is unlawful and unconstitutional. Obtaining legislation approval and a public referendum will be time-consuming and costly for Premium and New York State. 

Another significant fact to consider is that, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. According to the US Department of Energy's own Hydropower Vision report, areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.

I believe the misleading nature of Premium Energy's proposal, DoE's mandate to avoid Status 1 land, and especially the fragility and protected status of the Catskills Forest Preserve are all reasons to disqualify Premium Energy Holdings from receiving a preliminary permit. 

Respectfully submitted,
Dawn Peters



