

Julie, Mew York, NY.
To whom it may concern:
This is an OUTRAGEOUSLY MISLEADING proposal:

With a great concern I must state that the information presented in the Proposal is vague and misleading and does not allow respective approving Government Officials consider any meaningful quantitative parameters to evaluate the following decision-making points:
• Feasibility
• Costs
• Efficiency
• Avoidable Environmental impact
of the proposed solution to flatten peak energy usage.  
Further,
the Proposal does not specify gigantic implied construction and environmental costs;
 
Further,
the Proposal does not provide any comparable contemporary existing methods and/or solutions successfully implemented for similar causes.

-  Proposed solution is NOT a ‘renewable energy’ or ‘green’ solution. It is outdated and widely debunked ‘energy storage’ solution.
 
While using a hot contemporary ‘renewable energy’ term, the solution of a power plant powered by water pumps is an old, archaic and well-known ‘energy storage’ solution. By no means could this be called a ‘renewable energy’ or ‘green’ solution.
 
Pumped storage power plants existed for over a half of a century. Their main disadvantage is that they always operate at a significant energy loss.
In order to raise the water up the dam and, by doing so, to ‘store’ energy, a use of an additional 5-10% of grid energy is needed just to cover the energy losses while operating heavy machinery (pumps) to raise water in the first place. This means that a minimum of 5-10% of the grid energy is lost in order to ‘store energy’.

It must be stated that currently there is no known machinery used for pumping, generating and/or transmitting energy, which COE would be greater than 95%.
 
Therefore, cumulatively during energy generating cycle a MINIMUM of 10% -20% of energy will be lost in the proposed pumped power plant solution.
 
It is at most importance to note that such lost electrical energy is originally drawn from a common grid and supplied there by non-renewable and non-green methods.
 
In other words, tons of coal or oil must be burned in order to operate proposed so-called ‘renewable energy power plant’!!!

— Proposed solution comes at enormous monetary and environmental cost
 
The Proposal outlines constructing dams, water reservoirs, tunnels, power lines, underground facilities, electrical grid, and so on. Powerful turbines, generators, motors, transformers, etc. have to be purchased and installed.
 
It is obvious that implied related costs would be enormous, most likely in billions, yet the Proposal does not provide one single figure to outline costs. Nor does it offer costs vs. efficiency calculations.
 
Furthermore,
the proposed power plant is to be built in the State Park areas. Hundreds of acres of ancient forests are to be sunk and destroyed. Natural habitat of thousands of flora and fauna species, some of which are endangered, is to be destroyed, too.
 
Furthermore,
the plant is proposed to be built in direct proximity to water reservoirs supplying the US largest city, New York City, with approximately 40% of its drinkable water. It is unknown how proposed construction and disturbance of water supplies will affect the New York City water quality. 

So, why doing all of this when there are existing proven, contemporary and efficient energy storage solutions?
 
Why NONE of them are presented in the Proposal for the consideration of the approving Government agencies??

—  There are contemporary energy storage solutions currently existing on the market at a fraction of implied cost of the proposed pumped power plant.
 
Existing new energy storage solutions are cheap and effective.  

Currently, there are existing energy storage solutions with power storage of 60 MW.
 
They are cheap, compact and can be installed on existing electro-station and/or sub-stations.  There is no need to build enormous capital structures, disrupt water supplies or sink natural habitat of various species!!

Cost of such storage batteries is well-known to the contrary of the unknown cost and impact of the proposed water plant solution.
 
Further,
The Proposal’s completion date is years in the future.
Given the speed of developments in the field of contemporary energy storage systems, by the time of supposed pumped power plant completion the capacity of such systems will undoubtedly increase while their cost will be reduced even further.
 
THE PROPOSAL  BY PREMIUM ENERGY IS DANGEROUSLY MISLEADING AND CAN CAUSE ENORMOUS DISTRACTION FOR NO CAUSE WHATSOEVER.
STOP IT!!!!

 

