

Matthew Every, West Shokan, NY.
Re: Project P-15056 Ashokan Pumped Storage 

Dear Secretary Bose, 

My name is Matthew Every. I am a resident of West Shokan, New York and the senior editor of Field & Stream magazine. I grew up hunting and fishing around the Ashokan Reservoir and my family has lived in West Shokan for generations. I am commenting on behalf of myself, as someone who would be impacted by this project, and as a lifelong conservationist, hunter, and fisherman. 

The Ashokan Reservoir meets the needs of roughly 40 percent of New York City’s water supply. Out of the six reservoirs that serve NYC, it is the second largest. It is constructed with two separate basins, an upper and lower, the upper serving as a settling basin for periodic turbid flows to settle out. It was built in 1915 and over 100 years of sediment has settled there. 

Because of this settling basin, the drinking water coming from the Ashokan does not need to be filtered. It hasn’t been since the reservoir was constructed. If Premium Energy Holdings was to discharge water from a pumped storage facility into the upper basin of the Ashokan, I believe that it could increase turbidity in the entire system, posing a risk to the quality of the drinking water for millions of people. To quote another comment to this proposal from the local chapter of Trout Unlimited: 

“In a similar request before FERC for a license to construct a pumped storage project on NYC’s Schoharie Reservoir at Prattsville, Project # 2729, New York City retained Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory as a consultant. On page 12 of a report produced by NYC’s consultant, it  noted that the operation of such could “create an unacceptable human health risk.”

On top of this health risk, increased turbidity in the Ashokan would affect the surrounding stream ecology in an adverse way. The Ashokan is fed by the Esopus creek. The Esopus creek and the Ashokan Reservoir have a unique and recognized relationship. The Reservoir is home to a robust population of brown and rainbow trout. Anglers fish for trout in the reservoir, and these trout run up the Esopus to spawn every year keeping the creek stocked with wild fish. 

With climate change, dams, and an increased demand for clean water, wild trout are under constant threat. A proposal like the one before you would further imperil this important species. It would constantly increase turbidity in the water thus negatively impacting zooplankton—a large part of a rainbow trout’s diet. Because the trout in the Ashokan are an integral part of the Esopus creek’s ecosystem, any change to their ability to feed would diminish the quality of this important trout fishery. 

The Esopus is one of the Catskill drainages that comprise the “Cradle of American Fly Fishing,” and it is irreplaceable. Trout fisheries of the Esopus’ quality are becoming rarer in the United States. The NYS Department of Environmental Conservation has recently reclassified the Esopus Creek as a wild-quality stream, under their newly approved Trout Management Plan. Anglers already flock to the Esopus every spring and summer. But this reclassification will likely draw even more people to the area from around the Northeast and across the country. 

These anglers book hotel rooms, eat at local restaurants, and hire local fishing guides. Any negative change to the Esopus creek would stifle the local economy at a time when it is on the rise. Our economy relies heavily upon recreation and tourism. Trout have real value in this area, both financially and culturally. 

Through the years, the City of New York has purchased land around the Ashokan reservoir to curb development and keep the watershed clean. A positive side effect of this has been the habitat they’ve created for local wildlife. As a result, the Ashokan Reservoir, and the land that surrounds it, are classified as an Important Bird Area by the Audubon Society. It is a stopover and home to many migratory birds including the American black duck. 

Black ducks were once at dangerously low numbers, and they have been slowly coming back through the years. For waterfowl hunters and bird watchers, they are an important species. They make up a significant portion of an eastern waterfowl hunter’s daily bag limit. 

Historically the eastern mallard made up the bulk of a waterfowl hunter’s limit in the eastern flyway. But a recent study has shown that the mallards are declining due to habitat loss and the introduction of farm-raised mallards to the landscape. This resulted in the bag limit for mallards in the eastern flyway being cut in half in recent years. I have interviewed two biologists who study eastern mallards. From these interviews, I have gathered that eastern mallard populations are likely to continue to decline. 

As a result, waterfowl hunters may rely more and more on healthy populations of black ducks in the future. The Ashokan Reservoir and its surrounding wetlands represent the kind of habitat that takes years to replace or construct for these kinds of species. Digging the large tunnels this project requires and clearing tracts of land to erect high-tension power lines could pressure important wild areas for these ducks and other migratory birds.

If Premium Energy Holdings got approval and constructed a pumped storage facility at any of the proposed sites, the habitat, wildlife, recreation-based economy, and the quality of New York City’s drinking water would be adversely affected. This project would also negatively impact the local cultural heritage of trout fishing and be in conflict with New York State constitutionally-protected Forest Preserve lands. While I understand the need to transition to more sustainable sources of energy, the detrimental effects of a project like the one being proposed would outweigh the benefits. Because of this, I respectfully request FERC to deny Premium Energy Holdings the approval for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

Sincerely, 
Matthew Every

