

Kevin Noble, Brooklyn, NY.
									Kevin Noble
									6702 Ridge Blvd apt  6G
									Brooklyn, NY 11220


Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426							April 11, 2021

Re: Project P-15056.  Ashokan Pumped Storage

Dear Secretary Bose,

   I am writing to respectively request that you deny the preliminary permit to Premium Energy for the Ashokan Pumped Energy Project P-15056.

   Given that the NYC DEP has commented that they are totally opposed to this project and will  not even allow any testing of soils on NYC DEP land for studies means that granting this permit to Premium Energy will ultimately be a waste of time. 

   I live in Brooklyn, NY and I depend on the Ashokan Reservoir for about 40% of my drinking water. I am very concerned that the drilling of a tunnel into the bottom of the Ashokan Reservoir will disturb the sediment that has been collecting there for the past 100 years. The Esopus Creek regularly flows turbid with sediment after heavy rainstorms . The NYC DEP engineers have  developed methods over many years to allow the sediment to settle out in the western basin of the reservoir before sending the water into the eastern basin. From there clean clear flows though tunnels on its way to the faucets of the residents of NYC. The Premium Energy Project would likely upset this crucial process of clearing the water of sediment.

   Besides the disturbance to the bottom layers of sediment from the construction of the dam and tunnel there would also be the ongoing disturbances by the daily releases from the dam and the pumping of water back up to the upper reservoir.

  This release from the upper reservoir and pumping back up would also likely cause problems with the water temperature stratification especially in the summer months when the rainbow and brown trout in the reservoir depend on the cold water at the bottom layers.

   I am a member of the New York City chapter of Trout Unlimited. Along with other members of our chapter I have spent considerable time as a volunteer working to improve the habitat for trout in the streams and rivers in the Catskills.  Wild trout populations have seriously declined over the years due to the building of dams and reservoirs which prevent trout from reaching their spawning grounds in the upper reaches of the tributaries.

   The Esopus Creek and and its tributaries are widely known as a wild rainbow trout fishery. Anglers travel from around the country to fish the Esopus. Hundreds of anglers from New York City fish the Esopus every year.The NYS Department of Environmental Conservation this year upgraded the classification of the Esopus Creek to a “Wild Quality Stream” in their new Trout Management Plan. This means that the NYS DEP recognizes that the Esopus and the tributaries have the proper habitat for trout spawning.

Sincerely,
Kevin Noble

