

Elinor Stapylton, Phoenicia, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to critique Premium Energy Holdings proposal to build a hydroelectric power plant in the Catskill Mountains. The proposal put forward by Premium Energy Holdings seems to have been made in total disregard of the Department of energy's goals, and without careful consideration of the impacts to the Catskills forever wild forests and the legal protection status of these lands. 
Premium Energy Holdings proposal is unrealistic about its own projects categorization.  

The company claims to be a closed loop system (page 11, Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056). This statement is contrary to their proposed project since by definition the Ashokan would be classified as an open loop pump storage system as it is continuously connected to naturally flowing water, so that this project cannot be considered Open-loop, instead this proposed Add-on system is less energy effective and costly to maintain long term. In addition Premium Energy Holdings underestimate the amount of water level change they will cause as well as the potential devastation under increased rainfall events and under Climate Change. They also do not account for the increased turbidity rates that can be expected with their project given the turbines would disturb a centuries worth of sediment that has been accumulating in the upper Ashokan since its creation over a hundred years ago. This increased turbidity would absorb more light, resulting in increased water temperatures that reduces water quality and would be damaging for the important fish breeding habitat in the proposed areas as well as for 40% of NYC drinking water. This poorly articulated proposal does not meet its own standards that it claims to achieve, this should be enough grounds to reject Premium Energy Holdings for streamlined FERC approval for a preliminary license.  

Premium Energy Holdings proposal also disregards the protection of the Catskill forest. In Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is stated that the lands of the Catskills “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Additionally these lands are ranked in the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide by the New York State Forest Condition Index. In the USGS’s own language the lands of the Catskill Mountains are ranked as status 1 to conserve biodiversity and are defined as “An area having permanent protection from conversion of natural land cover and a mandated management plan in operation to maintain a natural state within which disturbance events (of natural type, frequency, intensity, and legacy) are allowed to proceed without interference or are mimicked through management.” These lands are also know for countless threatened and endangered species, such as Bicknell's Thrush, one of North America's rarest and most localized species, which was first described in the Slide Mountain Wilderness (where Premium Energy Holdings has proposed projects) and where they still reside, utilizing this land as critical protected breeding habitat.  

Premium Energy Holdings lack of critical planning and disregard for accurate language to describe their proposal demonstrates their inadequate understanding of the very project they are trying to propose and the complex system level impact it has throughout the region and into the future. I urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holdings request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment especially under increased uncertainty of Climate Change, highly disruptive to local communities and economy, hazardous for the purity of NYC’s drinking water, as well in the case of Premium Energy Holdings proposal; lacking the insight and organization to propose a critically researched proposal to the FERC.
 
I know the FERC’s commitment to economically efficient, safe, reliable and secure energy for consumers will enable them to see the critical issues in Premium Energy Holdings request for a preliminary permit and reject their ill informed proposal on the ground that these status 1 protected lands for biodiversity conservation are essential for safeguarding the future where intact habitats will be paramount for resiliency. Of course hydroelectric and Pumped Storage Projects will be a critical component of our transition to renewable resources, but these energy solutions will only be economically efficient, safe, reliable and secure if they do not degrade the environment we depend on, such as any project that proposes the destruction of such important protected habitat for people and the environment.

Elinor Stapylton and Nicholas George 



