

Stephen Molmed, West Shokan, NY.
Stephen Molmed, P.E., West Shokan, New York

It is evident that Premium Energy did not put much effort into studying the areas they are proposing to construct the Ashokan Pumped Storage project. The entire application has the feel of “let’s quickly throw it together and see what happens. If the preliminary permit is approved, great, if not, we didn’t spend much time, money or effort.”  A common theme throughout the Preliminary Permit Application is the lack of doing the most basic research to gather the most readily available public information about the proposed locations for the upper reservoirs and power plant locations.

Some people believe that any problems associated with construction can be mitigated through proper engineering and design. However, some projects, such as this one, are so fundamentally flawed that no amount of engineering can resolve their inherent problems. I offer this opinion as a Licensed Professional Engineer. 

Following are descriptions of a number of the deficiencies and inaccuracies in the preliminary application.

Missing Studies

In their preliminary permit application, Premium Energy lists some studies they propose to carry out, their list neglects to include several extremely important studies as listed below. The list is not meant to be all inclusive. 

•	Effects of construction, and operation, of the Wittenberg Reservoir and Dam on the Ashokan Reservoir with special emphasis on siltation and its impact on New York City’s ability to meet their obligations with the USEPA. 

•	Effect of Wittenberg Reservoir impounding the Maltby Hollow Brook on trout as well as other aquatic and terrestrial animals and plants, effects on local wells in shall alluvial gravel deposits. 

•	Flood impact study evaluating effects of a failure of Wittenberg Dam failure on downstream residential properties.

•	Emergency response study proposing measures to be taken to mitigate effects of a dam failure.

•	Impact of the construction of the necessary transmission line right-of-way, including, but not limited to effects of pesticides and herbicides used to maintain the corridor on the Ashokan Reservoir, and on potable water wells and people living near right-of-way.

•	Study and evaluation of the “probable fall zone/engineered fall distance” for the proposed transmission line towers. Based on the route shown in the application, it is probable that many residences would be located with the fall distance of the towers

•	Impact of proposed construction on traffic flow, with special attention to delays in emergency response time for fire, police and ambulance services.

Temporary Roads

Page 18 of the application Premium Energy claims that temporary access roads will not be needed to reach project sites to perform initial studies. This is inaccurate, particularly for the proposed Wittenberg Reservoir site that is located near Moonhaw Road in West Shokan.
Temporary roads will be required to allow machinery to gain access to the areas needed collect the necessary soil and subsurface geotechnical information. Numerous bore holes will be required, to get to all of the locations, multiple temporary roads will need to be constructed, requiring much, much clearing and grading. 

Public Roads

Construction of the pump house/power plant will require that sections of 28A are closed off for a significant period of time. The need for diverting traffic due to the construction of the pump house/power plant is not mentioned. Route 28A is a, relatively, high traffic volume road used by local residents, emergency services, law enforcement, school buses and tourists. Due to the rural character of the area, there are few opportunities to easily divert traffic around the construction. Additionally, no mention is included in the application about the need to permanently realign Route 28A around the power plant. A bypass road or diverting traffic flow will result in significant negative impacts on the daily lives of many residents.

Route 28A is a New York State road, located on land controlled by New York City, and would require permission from agencies such as New York State Department of Transportation, New York State DEC, New York City DEP, among others. 

Plant Capacity

FERC’s deficiency letter requests that the Applicant clarify and update the application with the correct rated capacity of the proposed power generation plant. 

In their response, Premium Energy states that information about the rated capacity of the power generation plant is included in Exhibit 1 of the amended application.

This does not satisfactorily clarify the proposed capacity of the power generation plant. While Exhibit 1 of the amended application states that the proposed power generation capacity is 800 mw, with 1,000 mw required for pump up. Premium Energy’s website, as well as other information published by Premium Energy, states that the project capacity could be 2,000 mw with 2,800 mw required for pump up. This is almost 3 times the capacity stated in the application and, if correct, will, potentially, have significant impact on the volume of the proposed upper reservoir, its level change and flow rate of water needed to be pumped and discharged between the reservoirs. 

If Premium Energy is considering the potential of increasing capacity of the power plan to 2,800 megawatts, all of the effects of this substantial increase need to be addressed as part of the Preliminary Application, and, certainly, must be thoroughly studied in any license application.

New York City DEP Position

NYCDEP has stated that is categorically opposed to the project and will not permit tests to be performed or construction to occur on its property. Further NYCDEP states that their land in not subject to taking by eminent domain. Therefore, it would serve no purpose to grant a preliminary permit for a project proposed to be constructed on lands that the project cannot be constructed.


