

Michael J Flaherty, New Paltz, NY.
Dear FERC:
  I have recently retired from my position with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation’s Bureau of Fisheries, where I held the position as Region 3 Fisheries Manager since 2006.  Prior to being the Region 3 Fisheries Manager, I was a Senior Aquatic Biologist within the same fisheries unit since 1990.  Since 1990, one of my primary responsibilities for NYS DEC has been the fisheries management and protection of the fisheries resources in the Ashokan Reservoir Watershed.
  I am generally very supportive of the idea of renewable and “clean” energy, but I also am aware that there can still be environmental and societal tradeoffs which render certain projects just not worth the risk.  Some projects are so obviously not worth the money and time involved in studying them, primarily  because the outcomes of these studies are clear enough from the onset.  I believe that proposed Project # 15056 (Ashokan Pump Storage), is one of those projects that should be denied at this point, prior to wasting millions of dollars in agency review and private investments in studies. 
  The Ashokan Reservoir watershed is blessed with an abundance of free-flowing mountain streams.  Nearly all of these streams contain self-sustaining wild trout populations.  In order to continue to sustain themselves, these cool water ecosystems must have a continual source of cool and clean water all year.  Trout and other fish also need to have access to suitable areas to spawn.  Within this watershed there is only one dam that I am aware of.  This is on the Little Beaver Kill and it forms a small lake in Kenneth Wilson State Park.   The other impassable man-made obstruction to trout movement on a main tributary is on Birch Creek, and it has a successful fish ladder installed on it.   If a new dam is created on one of the streams within the watershed, it will undoubtedly result in the loss of trout habitat, including the section of stream above it that has been used for trout spawning.  Water within the new reservoir will also likely be warm in the summer and, even if a minimum release of this water is required to the stream below, would likely change the temperature regime downstream, making it uninhabitable for trout while it is warm.  The quality of this water also would likely be changed based on whatever the water quality of the Ashokan Reservoir happens to be at that time.  It is not uncommon for the water in Ashokan Reservoir to be very turbid. Even if a new reservoir was somehow built to be self-contained and not built by damming a tributary, the footprint of this new waterbody could potentially change the local drainage to the stream by intercepting natural water flow, removing natural vegetation, and increasing erosion. 
  Within Ashokan Reservoir itself, the ecological impacts could be quite profound.  The west basin of Ashokan Reservoir is an important resource for both its function as a human water supply as well as the connected stream ecosystems upstream and downstream.  For water supply purposes, the west basin was designed to slow and contain the water as it comes in, before it enters the larger east basin portion of the reservoir.  This allows for settling of sediment brought in by the upper watershed.  After storm events the turbidity of this water can be extreme and can take months to settle.  If large power generating volumes of water are flushed into the reservoir on a daily basis, this may cause resuspension of sediment and could also disrupt and slow the rate that particles in the water settle.  This could change the usability of the water for water supply purposes and create more turbid releases downstream.  Not only do trout need clean water, but so do other organisms in the reservoir.  The base of the aquatic food chain in the reservoir is phytoplankton.  Turbid water does not allow as much sunlight to penetrate into the water and decreases the biomass of phytoplankton.  Decreased phytoplankton can have a cascading negative effect through the food chain.  Additionally, the zooplankton that feed on phytoplankton are in turn fed on by fish.  These planktivorous fish, including trout, and the fish that trout feed on, use their sight to feed on the zooplankton.  Higher turbidity levels create a more challenging environment for fish to find and feed on zooplankton.  Therefore, increased turbidity in the reservoir affects both the availability of food for fish and decreases their ability to feed on it.  This will slow the growth of fish and can affect their survival.
  Thermal stratification of the reservoir is very important for the survival of trout.  In the late spring, the reservoir will thermally stratify.  This occurs as the surface water is heated by the sun and becomes separated by a thermocline from the cool water below.  The upper heated layer of water can be 20 to 40 feet deep and is called the epilimnion.  The epilimnion is too warm for trout to survive through the summer, so the trout live the summer months below the thermocline in the cooler water.  Depending on the volume and location of where the power generating water is being released in the reservoir, I worry that this could disrupt the thermal stratification of the reservoir and thus threaten some of the cold water habitat available for fish that need it.
  Depending on how the water intake is designed, some fish residing in Ashokan Reservoir could be entrained when the water is pumped up to the storage reservoir.  These fish would likely not make the round trip back to their reservoir of origin alive after experiencing the pressure changes and physical gauntlet of the pumps and turbines.  
  I also am concerned about many other points that have already been made in other comments.
  I sincerely believe this project in the proposed location is a bad idea, and the process of further study and applications should be stopped before any more time and money wasted on this project.
 Sincerely,
 Michael J. Flaherty

