

Vanessa Esparza, Pine Bush, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline this  request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

While there’s no doubt that pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects will play a key role in our country’s transition to renewable energy, the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat, and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index.

Even once construction is complete, there would be further environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. 

In addition to its negative effects on the environment and water supply, Premium Energy’s proposal would be deeply damaging to local communities. Any conceivable upper reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve would require seizing homes and private property via eminent domain. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would likely have a hard time securing new housing, as there is currently a housing shortage in Ulster County, and the homes that are available are priced significantly higher than even just a few years ago. Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I urge Premium Energy to find another suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Vanessa

