

Ric Burns, Phoenicia, NY.
April 11, 2021

Federal Regulatory Energy Commission

RE: Proposed Hydroelectric Dam in Ulster County NY
Reference docket P-150156

Dear Sir/Madam,

As a longtime resident of both New York City (since 1975) and the Catskills Reserve (2008), I am writing to register the strongest possible objection to the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project put forward by the Premier Energy electric company.  

It is shocking that such a proposal has even been submitted, given the myriad stunningly obvious negative consequences it will have, any one of which would be sufficient to make such a project unthinkable.  

The area in which the proposed dam and pumped storage project would be constructed is at the very heart of one of the most historic, beloved, visited, skied, fished, hiked, lived in, traveled through and ecologically critical areas in New York State – every one of which activities and/or aspects would be catastrophically damaged by the proposed project.  Where to begin?  New York City’s drinking water – long lauded as among the cleanest and most potable in the nation – would be rendered measurably, indeed visibly, more turbid as a result – to say nothing of the negative impact on the water supply for wells throughout much of Ulster County.  The gateway to the area’s four great skiing facilities would be changed ineradicably for the worse, reducing access to the ski resort and summer concert venue at Hunter Mountain, and at the very least rendering access to the Hunter, Wyndham, Plattekill and Belleayre ski districts more difficult, and time-consuming, particularly from the south and east – which is to say from the largest cosmopolitan region in the United States. World class trout fishing streams would be devastated.  One of the premier scenic routs through the Catskills, Route 214, would be re-routed and disrupted.   Fishing sights and swimming holes, hiking paths and boatways used by hundreds of thousands of people a year would be eliminated or severely curtailed.  The impact on the ecology of the Catskills Forest Preserve would be disastrous – an extraordinary resource and amenity that has already come back once in history from the devastation in the 19th century caused by the rampant deforestation of hemlock and other trees due to the tanning industry.   As a result of that catastrophe, the entire Catskills were explicitly brought under the protection of New York State, whose constitution clearly and unequivocally prohibits exactly the kind of wholesale environmental molestation this would involve.  No matter how you consider this staggeringly ill-considered proposal it couldn’t be clearer that its impact – environmental, recreational, economic, on public health – would be resoundingly negative.   I very much hope this woefully ill-considered proposal gets turned down and shut down.  

Yours sincerely,

Ric Burns
917 750-8983 rburns@steeplechasefilms.com

