

Kate McGloughlin, Olivebridge, NY.
Dear Ms Bose,

I’m writing to oppose the plan for a hydroelectric plant proposed by Premium Energy Holdings LLC, your docket number P-15056.

By now you’ve heard from my neighbors who are engineers, conservationists, sports enthusiasts, environmentalists and community activists the myriad reasons that this application should be denied. Though I comprehend the protestations from these professionals, I can’t speak with authority on any of those subjects. Their voices are informed and clear—the facts based on science and engineering—this project shouldn’t be placed in this location.

I can only speak with authority from my own experience and work about the magnitude and lasting effects this sort of disruption can have on a community, and the legacy of generational trauma it can engender for its descendants. For the last five years, the focus of my work has been to name, express, publicize and help the community heal from the impact the last significant act of eminent domain has had on our community.
( https://www.katemcgloughlin.com/video).

Those of us whose families were dislocated from what is now the Ashokan basin, still wrestle with reconciliation; there exists, still, a mistrust between some of us and agencies and commissions that enact life-altering undertakings for ‘the greater good’. Once again, our rural way of life is undervalued. Once again, our lifestyle and livelihoods are pitted against a good idea—who could possibly be against renewable energy?—perhaps someone whose homeland and neighborhood will be destroyed by the creation of another reservoir.

I openly and publicly resent the process by which a non-local, for-profit company can apply to a non-local commission to make an application to begin an operation that would be so deleterious to another person’s homeland. I’m a twelfth generation Ulster County resident and I take this matter very personally.

It will be a great day when renewable energy is delivered through a not-for-profit coalition that actually has an understanding of holistic progress, not by a process that undercuts the obvious way of the future (renewable energy) by devastating the delicate ecology of humanity and wilderness that is the hallmark of the Catskill Mountains.

Sincerely,
Kate McGloughlin
Olivebridge, NY
(Descendant of Asa Bishop of Olive City, Lemuel Boice of Boiceville, Lemuel Winchell of Olive, and Kit Davis of Tongore)

