

Don Kinsella, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)

I am writing to express my opposition to the permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage project being proposed by Premium Energy Holding LLC of California. As a resident of the Catskills I have firsthand knowledge of the areas under consideration for this project, the delicate ecosystems that would be impacted and the potential economic destruction a project of this size in this area would entail.
The Catskill Forest Preserve is classified as Status 1 land under the U.S. Geological Survey’s Gap Analysis Program. Because of this status it means that there can be no development for hydropower under the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Hydropower Vision. Any changes to this status within the Catskill Preserve would require a constitutional amendment, passed by the State legislature, followed by a public referendum.  
This is not a “closed-loop system” as claimed by Premium Energy Holding LLC. If this project were to happen there will be increased turbidity within the Ashokan Reservoir degrading the water quality to the point where filtration would likely be necessary before the water could be used as a potable source. The rising and falling surface water levels would likely adversely affect stream and adjacent terrestrial ecology in the Ashokan Reservoir, Esopus Creek, and tributaries. Erosion and sedimentation regimes would likely change and could negatively impact the drainages. 
There are numerous rare plants and animals that grow and breed in the Catskills whose habitats would be threatened if such a project were to go forward. The Esopus Creek is one of the most popular trout fishing streams in the Catskills with Brook, Brown and Rainbow Trout all calling its waters home which would be seriously threatened, and their breeding habitat may be eliminated. Trout fishing is a large source of tourism and vital to the local economy as well. There are many rare plants and in fact it is illegal to harvest or remove plants from the Catskills. 
It is clear to me that based on the fact that the Catskills are designated as Status 1 Land, that there are numerous negative impacts to protected plant and animal habitats and that this system will degrade the water in the Ashokan Reservoir which serves over 9 million residents of New York City that this project application permit should be denied. 

Thank you, 

Don Kinsella


