

Barbara klippert, New York, NY.
April, 9, 2021

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to object to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in the New York catskill area and strongly request that FERC  decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 
Although pumped storage and new hydroelectric projects have their place in  renewable energy, a part of the  Catskill Forest Preserve should not be destroyed as a result. Article XIV of the NYS Constitution guarantees that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of very rare continuous wildlife habitat, and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats in the country.
The project itself will cause environmental destruction to Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. Pumped storage is wrecks nearby stream ecology, because within a pumped storage system, the upper reservoir is subject to rapid fluctuations as the water is pumped up and down. It affects the sediment in connected tributaries, which has a cumulative effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment amounts in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s drinking water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to almost 10 million people.  
Also, Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations will adversely affect the quality of water within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be completely inappropriate to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represented over $1.7 billion of investments in the last 30 years.  Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” even though it is not, and therefore is not eligible for such approval. 
Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely yours, Barbara Klippert 


