

Ruth Ann Gyure, Larchmont, NY.
I oppose this project for several reasons. As a professional ecologist, it is clear to me (and there are many references available) that fragmented habitats are not suitable for sustaining the wildlife and plant life desirable in our state, especially our precious protected lands.  The Catskills Preserve is an invaluable 700,000 acres of continuous land whose benefits cannot be fully measured. It is among the top 1% of forest habitats region wide (NY State Forest Condition Index). If we continue to break it up, and use it for commercial purposes, the original intent of establishing it as preserved land is increasingly lost in a way that does not equate to the value estimated by developers who will mostly benefit from the outcome. This protected land is preserved for all of us, not the few who seek to exploit it. 
Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”
As an avid birder, I also point out that all proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area: see www.audubon.org/important-bird-areas/catskills-peaks-area .  Bird populations are particularly depended on large tracts of reliable and continuous habitat for the maintenance of healthy numbers and activity.  It is also clear that changing the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment regime in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and part of the NYC water supply 
As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protecIons designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” So why is it being targeted for development?   
Clean unfiltered water is also a hugely important resource for the citizens of New York State. Our drinking water supply is here for us because of billions of dollars worth of investment to keep watersheds as pristine as possible. The Catskills play a vital role in supplying this system, and clearly, our valuable water resource will be even more important in an uncertain climate future. 

I urge decision makers to take all thes points into consideration, and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


