

Elizabeth Fullerton-Dummit, Boiceville, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000


Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposed hydroelectric power plant that the California based company Premium Energy Holdings would like to build in the Catskill Mountains of New York. As a resident of the area, I am urging FERC to unequivocally deny Premium Energy Holdings Company’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. The Catskills are a status 1 area with formal protections to prevent such a project as this. Our state preserve contains 700,000 acres of wildlife habitat that is protected by the NY state constitution, and under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

The potential environmental threat this project makes to birds, aquatic habitats and the land should be enough to stop this before it starts. And if it is not enough, then please consider the displacement in our community such a project would cause. This area is having an unprecedented interest since the pandemic, so displacing long-time residents would make an already tough housing shortage even worse. Water is sacred, water is life— this is a chant being echoed across this country. There is only one water, and moving forward on a project that could negatively impact the drinking water for more than 18 million residents of New York City can never be considered renewable.  

Our country and state are looking for creative solutions to transition to more renewable energy sources, however the pristine forests, streams, and wildlife of the Catskill Forest Preserve should not be sacrificed in the process. I hope you will encourage Premium Energy to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth Fullerton-Dummit 


