

Tracy Walsh, West Shokan, NY.
April 11, 2021

I’m writing to protest Premium Energy’s Proposed Pump Storage Hydroelectric Plant (FERC project number, P-15056). The truth is, sustainable and renewable energy are incredibly important, and good projects need to be supported. But this particular plan is a non-starter—for multiple reasons. Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation.

As a resident of Moonhaw Road—one of the 3 sites being looked at for this project—I am painfully aware that over 100 years ago, our valley was previously flooded, our town destroyed, and the livelihoods of local residents taken away. This cannot be allowed to happen again. Not here. Not ever. 

First off—this project would destroy highly preserved land. The Catskills Forest Preserve was created under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, with the understanding that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” These 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, and are considered Status 1 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

Of equal importance, this project would forever alter the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and a major contributor to the water supply for New York City—bringing 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people.  This is in effect the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation. This particular project would increase the turbidity of the water in the Ashokan Reservoir, and wreak havoc on the NYC water supply.

An additional point that should be made is that Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage Project proposal does not represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy is looking for. “Closed-loop” pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. And while Premium Energy describes this project as a “closed-loop” system, it is in fact a project with significantly higher risks and detrimental effects. Why should we (and why should FERC) trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

I trust that Premium Energy will be able to find an alternative location for a project such as this one—but which will not destroy protected land, devastate communities, and threaten wildlife and other natural resources.

The bottom line is that it would be foolhardy for FERC to allow this project to proceed beyond the preliminary permit stage. Project P-15056 should be rejected now, and Premium Energy’s focus should be directed toward a more effective and less costly solution to the ongoing problem of energy storage. And perhaps next time they should tell the whole truth.

Sincerely,
Tracy A. Walsh 



