

Brigid Walsh, Saugerties, NY.
To: Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
 
Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains.   As landowners downstream from the Ashokan Reservoir, and as a member of community already suffering from the turbid waters released through our water ways, we take our environmental stewardship of the area very seriously for the next generations of wildlife and people to enjoy.  I am part of a large and engaged community and I urge FERC to decline the request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056 based on the following reasons:
1.)  NOT CLOSED LOOP -The application is sloppy and flawed in it’s local references and assertion of being a “closed loop system” when it is an “add on” system.
2.)  BIRDS-All proposed reservoirs are within the Audubon NY Catskill Peaks Forest Important Bird Area (IBA).  If you have ever heard the flute song of a Forrest Thrush, you would defend it’s habitat from development without question or hesitation. https://ny.audubon.org/conservation/catskill-peaks-forest
3.)  TROUT -The system’s environmental impact on the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir.
4.)  DRINKING WATER - The system’s impact on turbidity levels of the Ashokan Reservoir which supplies both local and 40% of NYC’s water, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people.  The proposal threatens this valuable asset, which holds the distinction of being the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation.
5.)  PRESERVED LAND -The three sites for the proposed reservoirs and tunnels are on highly protected land of the Catskills Forrest Preserve created in 1885 under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution “shall be forever wild… not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”
6.)  PROTECTED LAND -The Catskill Forrest Preserve is considered Status 2 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the U.S. Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development."
7.)  CONTINUOUS HABITAT - The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare) and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.
8.)  COMMUNITY DISPLACEMENT, AGAIN- Premium Energy’s proposal would be devastating to local communities as it would require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a process whose scars are still felt here from when the Ashokan was constructed 100 years ago. Residents displaced by the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would be unable to secure new housing, as there is currently a severe housing shortage in Ulster County. 
9.)  TOURISM – The proposal would negatively impact the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty  and otherwise industrialize the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.
 
As a last point to make in opposition, the irony must be pointed out that the solution to fossil fuels and extractive energy methods should not be to usher in a new environmentally damaging system! Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—using innovation where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.
 
Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the 
Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
 
Sincerely,


Brigid Walsh
& Ed Gerrard Himberger
 
 


