

James Pellitteri, Jewett, NY.


Federal Energy Regulatory Commission					April 12, 2021
888 First Street, NE. Room 1-A
Washington, DC  20426

ATT: Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary to the Commission
RE: The proposed Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage and Hydro-electric Project
        Docket P-15056

Dear Commissioners:
 
The Town of Jewett, NY strongly objects to the project to possibly create a dam in Stony Clove Notch on Route 214 in Greene and Ulster County for the following reasons.

•	It is not practical that Premium Energy would be able to secure property rights for exploration or development, especially on lands owned by NYCDEP and the NYS constitutionally protected Catskill Park Forest Preserve, which prevents any development public or private for the greater public good.  The applicant should prove it could get the authorizations necessary to proceed before granting a preliminary permit.
•	The geology of the region is challenged by turbidity during flood events, resulting in water quality impairment from suspended clay soils which can last for days or weeks depending on the magnitude of the flood event.  The project would significantly disturb the Ashokan reservoir system on which NYCDEP relies to provide high quality drinking water to approximately 9 million residents.
•	The environmental impacts would be overwhelming to the landscape, wildlife and aquatic resources.  The applicant should prove first the workability of this project given the substantive comments submitted to the Commission. 
•	The application was poorly put together, with minimal information.  That should be an indication the applicant did not know about or care to research the challenges it would be up against proposing the project in this highly sensitive, protected region of NYS. 
•	One of the proposed reservoir locations is in Lanesville, the Town of Hunter, Greene County.  We support the Town of Hunter in decrying what that would do to the hamlet of Lanesville, through which a NYS-designated scenic byway runs (State Route 214).
•	The Mountaintop which consists of the towns of Hunter, Jewett, Lexington, Prattsville is almost entirely a tourist economy.  The only roads used to reach us from downstate New York and New Jersey are Route 214 and Route 23A.  Route 23A is a winding mountain road with little space for the road between a steep hill and a steep drop to Kaaterskill Creek. It’s not unusual for the 23A to be closed for weeks at a time for repairs. 

 
Thank you for your attention.
Yours truly,
James Pellitteri, Jewett Town Supervisor 
518-263-4646 Ext 2 
3547 Route 23C 
PO Box 132 
Jewett, NY 1244


