

Robert Graffeo, Lanesville, NY.
So called Engineers..   In regard to the preliminary expedition for Hydro project in Catskill Mountain area.  As much as the desire is to evaluate and attempt to develope a hydro project...Please note some realistic concerns.
     Rerouting a roadway to develope a Dam, would obstruct:
     
     1. traffic to and from outdoor recreation, local restaurants, and residents.  This roadway is also a state road that has scenic protected land which is routinely traveled.  Infrastructure is already neglected unfortunately and your anticipated project may on paper seem beneficial to private enterprise but would serve no value to current residents or frequent and new visitors to the landscape , historic scenery.
    
      2. Construction and destruction of Protected land would effect the overall environment.  Natural preserves serve as an environment for many species protected and non- protected.

      3. The ecological effect of re-routiing the water flow would destroy the waters ecological system.  Honestly, you putting pen to paper may seem wonderful on paper , however the destruction of natural protected state land would only leave to a failure of quality of water in N.Y.C.  Many years ago the water in NYC was considered the best in the state and country.  Unfortunately, the neglect of the city and poor execution of private vendors like yourself would only be interested in the economic gain for corporate companies and the narrow minded politicians that you have in your pocket.

     4. As engineers, challenge yourself with projects that re-build or utilize distressed properties. Utilize the many distressed properties along the Hudson.  consider the old IBM building in Kingston. Spend time and money re building the existing infrastructure.  The overall cost would be less and the profit margin would also exist , power the destruction of protected areas would not occur.

As engineers, revise the mess created at the Gilboa Dam.  NYC is responsible for the managing of dams and reservoirs.  The responsibility includes upholding dam regulations to lesson any environmental impacts .  NYC not surprisingly  has been identified as having high hazard levels according to the National Inventory of Dams.

SIMPLY... Your company will make it work on paper, however hydrological or structural faults that make them susceptible to a failure either triggered by storms, and progressive deterioration, SIMPLY INADEQUATE MAINTENANCE!! 
     

