

Hendrik Uyttendaele, West Shokan, NY.
I urge you to reject Premium Energy Holdings' application to study a pumped storage facility in the Ashokan Reservoir area of the Catskills Preserve. It will fatally complicate efforts to maintain water quality both locally and for millions of New York City residents.

The Esopus Creek was dammed in 1915 to create the Ashokan Reservoir. The water of the upper Esopus Creek feeds the Western part of the Ashokan reservoir (Western basin), which then continues to flow in the Eastern part of the reservoir (Eastern basin), and the water then flows into the Catskill Aqueduct to the Kensico Reservoir in Westchester County, and then to New York City, where it provides unfiltered and clean drinking water to millions of inhabitants. 40% of the NYC water supply flows through the Ashokan reservoir.

Because of the innate geological and hydrological characteristics of the upper Esopus Creek watershed area, enormous amounts of red silt or clay are picked up by the upper Esopus Creek with each rain storm. This red silt turns the upper Esopus Creek into a river of "chocolate milk" which is then brought into the Western basin. There, the red silt settles to the bottom of the Western basin, and clear surface water is transferred at certain times to the Eastern basin, on its way to NYC. As a result, enormous amounts of red silt are currently stored at the bottom of the Western basin.

After heavy rains, the Esopus Creek can bring too much "chocolate milk" into the Western basin. At those times, the turbid water is discharged to the lower Esopus, in order to prevent the "chocolate milk" from being released into the Eastern basin. This action is referred to as "operational release" and is controlled by the NYC Department of Environmental Protection (DEP). Millions of gallons of water are sacrificed each year to preserve low turbidity in the waters of the Eastern basin.

These NYC DEP controlled discharges in the lower Esopus river have had severe impacts on the lower Esopus Creek and river bank ecology. This has resulted in ongoing litigation between the NYC DEP on the one hand, and many different parties like Ulster County, the environmental group Riverbank, many residents and the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC), on the other.

In addition, extensive efforts are currently underway to reduce the level of turbidity (also referred to as suspended sediment concentrations or SSCs) in the upper Esopus Creek. Multiple stream restoration projects of the upper Esopus Creek and its tributaries are currently being done by the NYC DEP and Ulster County Soil and Water Conservation District (UCSWCD). These restoration projects of the upper Esopus Creek watershed are done in agreement and supervised by New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The EPA acts as the regulatory agency that oversees NYC DEP agreed upon conditions that allows NYC DEP to avoid filtering the water for millions of NYC inhabitants, as described in its Filtration Avoidance Determination (FAD) agreement.

What will happen if the proposed new upper reservoir becomes operational as part of a Pumped Hydro Energy Storage (PHES) system that uses the Western basin as its lower basin? To start, enormous amounts of sediments will become suspended in the water of the new upper basin, which is not aligned with an erosion-resistant river bed base, and huge amounts of soil sediments will be suspended in its waters with each daily fill of water. When this water with high SSC from the upper basin is released (to generate electricity), huge amounts of SSC will end up in the Western basin. The release of so much water in the Western basin will also churn up enormous amounts of sediments that are already settled at the base of the Western basin, increasing SSCs even further. To describe it simply, because of the action of the proposed PHES, the waters of the Western basin will look like "chocolate milk" all the time, not only when heavy rainfall occurs.

What can NYC DEP do with this enormous increase in daily SSC in the waters of the Western basin? It will not be able to release waters into the Eastern basin because it is too turbid, so the water supply it can provide to the Eastern basin will be drastically reduced. NYC DEP and UCSWCD's efforts reduce the turbidity of the waters of the Western basin as much as possible would be futile. The PHES system would be run by a private company trying to maximize efficiency and profit, and it will try to run this system as much as possible, to serve the interests of its investors as opposed to preserving the quantity and quality of water to millions of NYC residents.

NYC DEP could try to reduce sediments from its water supply by creating huge water treatment plants further downstream, however that would require the use of inorganic polyaluminium coagulants or synthetic organic coagulants. These treatment centers would be very expensive and the safety of these coagulants in drinking water is very controversial and their use is prohibited in many countries.

There are obviously many other issues with the above proposed PHES system, such as possible contamination of the water with soluble metals and other organic and inorganic compounds. These metals and compounds not only can affect water quality to millions of New Yorkers (which would then require filtration, which NYC has avoided under the FAD agreement) but also can affect the aquatic life in the Ashokan reservoir. Furthermore, increased turbidity will result in higher water evaporation waste (darker waters absorb more sun light) and decreased light penetration and oxygenation will result in a significant disturbance of the aquatic life that is key in keeping its water clean, as well as possible overgrowth of toxic cyanobacteria.

In conclusion, the proposal to create an "open" PHES system using the Ashokan reservoir as its lower basin is preposterous. I urge you to reject it out of hand.

