

Alexandria Rabuffo, Shandaken, NY.
To the good people of the FERC,

I strongly object to the proposal on docket P-15056, Premium Energy Holdings LLC Proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage project. The ecosystem of the Shandaken and Catskill Mountains Areas depends on the waterways and lands included in the Lanesville proposal all the way down to the Ashokan Reservoir. While this proposal failed to recognize and notify them, there are many townships less than 5,000 along the proposed pathway through a precious forest preserve that would be impacted as well as the vast majority of the New York City Watershed. Additionally, this forest preserve represents a piece of the less than 1% of old growth forest remaining in the deciduous regions of eastern North America and is a precious limited habitat for biodiversity.

The waterways proposed for modification are already fragile and would cannot withstand the proposed added turbidity this project would cause. Beyond damage from hurricanes, these waterways are already prone to seasonal flooding and have undergone major infrastructure projects to decrease turbidity which this proposal would undo. Increasing turbulence will only cause more drastic erosion and raise flood levels to new heights, making not only the proposed dam location but all areas downstream uninhabitable. This will wreak havoc on the residential, business and infrastructure zones that adjoin these waterways. These waterways are a large part of the local economy as well as serving as a primary water source for New York City. In addition to the being the drinking water for the 8.7 Million people in New York City, this proposal would affect the depth needed for all existing local well based water sources and would increase particulates and sediment in the drinking water. This project proves a huge safety risk to the potable water of New York City and the communities this project passes through, which stretch almost half way across Ulster County.

Furthermore, this proposal will impede migration patterns for many species and be catastrophic to their populations. Destruction of these lands and waterways affects habitats for rare and endangered plants and animals, as well as impacting habitats and migration patterns which put other species at higher risk. Included; among many species in this area; are the endangered American chestnut (virtually/functionally extinct), the rare Bicknell’s thrush (who breeds in these mountains), the White Mountain Tiger beetle (a globally rare beetle whose home lies in the banks of the Esopus creek), the rare Lepidotera species, and the American bald eagle (a raptor under federal protection). These are only a few of the endangered flora, regionally rare raptors, regionally rare reptiles and amphibians, and large mammals that rely on the forest and its pristine waters for survival and reproduction.

The United Nations has already warned of the risks of biodiversity collapse, yet this project would propose to route through one of our country’s most biodiverse areas. This is not a way to save the environment, only one that would destroy the resources green energy is supposed to protect. Please deny this project any ability to move forward, this region is a precious and limited natural resources that would be devastated by this work and needs the wisdom of good people and the FERC to protect it.

Sincerely,
Alexandria Rabuffo 

