

John Draper, Brooklyn, NY.
My family and I have been a regular visitor to Woodland Valley, located in Phoenicia, NY (Town of Shandaken, Ulster County) for 22 years.  We have a number of close friends who live there, and our daughter has worked in a Day School for two summers in the past few years. We are considering buying a home in this area to live near our close friends and enjoy this community that has always felt like home. I understand that the area where we are seeking to live is surrounded by the Catskill Forest Preserve, a wilderness area protected by the NY State Constitution.

I am opposed to the granting of a preliminary permit to the California-based company Premium Energy Holdings (PEH) for its proposed project to build a pumped storage hydroelectric plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir (docket number P-15056). I understand that renewable forms of noncarbon energy production are essential to our country, but unfortunately the adverse effects of constructing this particular hydro-electric plant far outweigh the benefits. I hope you will consider not issuing a preliminary permit to PEH since its submitted proposal has many flaws.

After close examination of the PEH application proposal, I discovered that it includes inaccurate statements and misleading information. My opposition to the proposed project is for the following reasons:

The entire proposed project lies within (not near, as stated in its proposal) the pristine woodlands of the Catskill Forest Preserve, which has been protected by section 2.1 of the New York State Constitution since 1894.

Unlike the claim made in its proposal, PEH’s project is not a closed loop system but instead its open loop plan could cause many negative effects to the area environment and ecosystem.

New York City operates the Ashokan Reservoir (proposed to be used by PEH), the city’s drinking water supply under a Filtration Avoidance Determination (FAD) issued by the US Environmental Protection Administration. The proposed project would drastically raise the turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir watershed, which would taint the water supply and undercut billions of dollars that NYC has invested in its water system. It is unlikely NYC would ever grant access to the Ashokan Reservoir without years of legal battles.
..
The woodlands in the Catskill Forest Preserve are home to numerous endangered species of wildlife, which would undoubtedly be adversely affected by the construction of the proposed project. Such endangered species include wild honeybees, which provide necessary pollination. The Catskill Forest Preserve is also one of the oldest fossil forests in the world and a major bird area including rare species.

Woodland Valley itself, which includes State-owned acreage of the Catskill Forest Preserve, is home to many bird and wildlife species, as well as such historical structures nestled in the forest as the Roxmor Inn (c. 1910); one of the oldest campgrounds in NYS; a private home frequented by naturalist John Burroughs; and the oldest downhill ski slope in NYS (no longer in operation but preserved with a historical marker). In addition, the Woodland and Esopus Creeks, which merge in Woodland Valley, is a prime trout breeding ground. Aspects of fly fishing were developed over the past century-plus on these creeks, which continue to attract anglers and hikers, both locally and as part of the thriving tourism in the area.

With so much private property located within close proximity of Woodland Valley Creek, and surrounded by the Catskill Forest Preserve, relocation of homes along the creek would be difficult if not impossible without amendment of the New York State Constitution.

Additionally, local and tourism traffic in the area would be severely disrupted by construction of the proposed tunnel system and dam, wreaking economic havoc on the affected hamlets, towns, and counties. Tourism provides millions of dollars and thousands of jobs to the local economy.


I urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny Premium Energy Holdings the permit.





