

Brooke Parslow, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Kimberly D. Bose and all,

I am writing to express my opposition to Premium Energy Holding’s proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, Docket number P-15056-000.

As we move forward into a more sustainable energy future, FERC will play a large, vital role in what that looks like. It’s clear that all energy projects will require some degree of sacrifice and upset, whether it’s shifts in the job market or people losing homes via eminent domain. However, it’s FERC’s responsibility to be principled in this process by following its own mission (like that set forth in Hydropower Vision) and holding prospective developers to high standards. It’s abundantly clear to me that this proposal falls short on both of these fronts; allowing it to continue forward would be a dangerous precedent, possibly undermining the public’s faith in our institutions and making people wary of sustainable energy projects as a whole.

The creation of an upper reservoir in the Catskill Forest Preserve and the ensuing rapid fluctuations of water in both reservoirs would devastate our surrounding wildlife habitats. Habitats like these cannot be fully recovered once they’re destroyed and are vital to our ecological future. The Department of Energy clearly understands this, as areas with “formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development,” according to Hydropower Vision. The forests around any conceivable sites in the Catskill Forest Preserve rank among the top 1 percent of forest habitats region-wide, and are considered Status 2 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” These areas have been protected as forever wild by the New York State Constitution for over 100 years.

The proposal incorrectly states on page 11 that the “proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop.” The Ashokan Reservoir, the proposed lower reservoir, is part of a flowing water system fed from above by the Schoharie Reservoir, Esopus Creek, and smaller tributaries, and flowing downstream into the Esopus Creek and the water-supply system of New York City. It is actually an add-on project for open-loop pumped-storage hydropower because the Ashokan Reservoir is still continuously connected to the naturally flowing water feature that was dammed to construct the Ashokan Reservoir. 

Premium’s misrepresentation of this seems self-serving (since the Department of Energy supports closed-loop projects) and calls into question their ability to operate with integrity when profit is at stake. 

The proposal omits Greene County, incorrectly names multiple townships, and omits numerous major streams. Its descriptions of the proposed sites (with blurry maps and contradictory locations) are so poor that many community members cannot even tell if they’ll be directly impacted. The proposal feels rushed and careless, which is truly an insult to the ecosystems and communities that would be sacrificing so much for a project like this.

I respectfully request that FERC deny this preliminary license application.

Thank you,
Brookelyn Parslow
241 Moonhaw Rd
West Shokan, NY 12494


