

Abbey Dedola, Seal Beach, CA.
To Whom It May Concern,

I am a homeowner in the Chichester area and stand with the Chichester Property Owners Association in opposition to the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings (PEH) for the project to build a pumped storage hydroelectric plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir (docket number P-15056).

The proposal as submitted contains much erroneous and misleading information, and I  believe that the FERC should study the following facts, and deny this application.

1. The entire proposed project lies within the Catskill Forest Preserve, which has been protected in section 2.1 of the New York State Constitution since 1894.

2. Key players were not notified beforehand, as legally required, including:

* New York City
* The hamlets of Lanesville, Chichester, Phoenicia, Mt. Tremper
* Towns of Shandaken, Olive and Hunter
* Ulster and Greene counties
* Hunter Mountain Ski Resort, and its parent company Vail Resorts

3. Local and vacationer traffic on New York State Route 214, connecting Hunter Mountain, and the hamlets of Tannersville and Hunter to all points south, would be severely disrupted, wreaking economic havoc on the affected hamlets, towns, and counties.

4. Replacing New York State Route 214 will prove impractical, if not impossible, given the topography of the land.

5. New York City’s Department of Environmental Protection operates the city’s drinking water supply under a Filtration Avoidance Determination (FAD) issued by the US Environmental Protection Administration. The proposed project would drastically raise the turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir watershed

6. As proposed, PEH’s project is not a closed loop system. With so much private property located within close proximity to the Stony Clove creek, and surrounded by the Catskill Forest Preserve, relocation of homes and businesses along the creek is impossible without amendment of the New York State Constitution.

We urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny Premium Energy Holdings the permit.

If you have any questions about this letter, please contact me at the provided phone number. Thank you.

Sincerely,
Abbey Dedola

