

James Armstrong, Olivebridge, NY.
To Whom It May Concern,

I am deeply troubled by the proposal of a hydroelectric pumped storage facility (docket number P-15056-000) in the Ashokan Reservoir area. As someone with significant environmental education and an eye toward the future, I well understand the need for alternate power sources. Solar, wind, and water are certainly necessary power sources that will help us all transition away from fossil fuels and will help our Earth survive well past when we are all gone. However, the cost of the Ashokan Reservoir proposed hydroelectric facility is far too great, both environmentally and monetarily.

Throughout my life I’ve enjoyed this area and these mountains more than most. I’ve hiked all the highest peaks in the Catskills time after time. I know beautiful, hidden places that hold a lot of value to me, and that will surely be discovered by adventurous folks in the future. I’ve fished the Ashokan Reservoir and enjoy the views driving over the dividing weir on a daily basis.

To allow a private company to come in and effectively steal “forever wild” land sets an extremely dangerous precedent. The Catskill Mountains are one of New York’s greatest treasures – a resource that is intended to be available for generation after generation. If this private company can “steal” this resource, then what is next? Vail Resorts purchased the Hunter Mountain ski area several years ago. Vail Resorts is a massive corporation, with tremendous capital to invest. What if they decide that Slide Mountain, the tallest mountain in the Catskills, would make a great ski resort? Could they similarly “steal” this Forever Wild land from generations to come, just as it is proposed that Premium Energy Holdings can do for their hydroelectric project?

The environmental impacts of the hydroelectric project cannot be understated, and I’m sure have been addressed by others who are better informed than I. Similarly, the local areas, the tourism industry, and local homeowners will be adversely impacted by a truly massive project. Our local communities may not have the monetary assets that Premium Energy Holdings does but we have a tremendous and rich sense of community, up here in these mountains that are our homes.

Please, do not let this land that I and others value so greatly be turned to simply monetary value for a corporation. We are better than that.

James Armstrong
188 Grassy Ridge Rd.
Olivebridge, NY 12461

docket number P-15056-000


