

Natalie Parker, Olivebridge, NY.
I am writing to express my concerns with the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.  It appears that this company, Premium Energy, is not particularly familiar with this area and does not have the best interest of our citizens or our wild spaces in mind.  This company is California-based, and in doing a little bit of research, I found a number of similar proposals (nearly identical in fact) of theirs to the FERC in CA proposing dams to be built in the Eastern Sierra region, one of them even potentially within the John Muir Wilderness.  Fortunately, these permits were deemed ‘deficient,’ and I hope to see the same outcome in this instance.  I wonder if there isn’t a trend here: this company seems to seek out wild areas bordering on some existing infrastructure (a dam/reservoir), and proposes a massive project that involves building new reservoirs, dams, pipelines and powerhouses often on protected land.  They provide a conveniently vague proposal with an outline for upcoming surveying and studies to determine whether or not the proposal is actually feasible, taking place over the course of 24 months and costing approx. 3 – 5 million dollars.  Why are they now targeting our beautiful Catskill region in New York?  Were they rejected one too many times back in California, and have since decided to exploit wild areas further afield?  

I am all for renewable energy, but I would like to see it done in a practical, well thought out way, taking the land and the communities that it will be impacting into consideration.  The proposal for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project does not do this.  It negatively impacts land and water resources that tens of thousands of people, both local residents and tourists from all over, enjoy.  I have spent my whole life hiking in the Catskill preserve, and I am intimately familiar with all three areas that this company has elected as potential sites of its upper reservoir.   These are ecologically important areas.  The streams that would be dammed harbor trout stocks, provide habitat for many other species, and attract numerous visitors.  

I would hope that even if Premium Energy were allowed to conduct their proposed survey and assessment of this project, they would soon realize that this plan is simply not feasible in this area.  However, since I do not know how they operate and what their finances/methods truly are, I am hoping that this can all be shut down before it even has a chance to get underway.  Please reject this proposal!


