

Douglas Gillespie, Phoenicia, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.
Docket number P-15056-000
Dear Ms. Bose,
As a property owner in Woodland Valley, I am writing to strongly condemn the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a pumped storage system in the Catskill Mountains (Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
The number of reasons to oppose are almost too numerous to count. While I am strongly in support of moving out of fossil fuels as an energy source, this project will create many and devastating problems should it be allowed to move forward.
As someone who learned to appreciate the amazing diversity of the trees, plants, fish and wildlife habitat in the Catskills from my earliest days, I will list a few:
• Severe negative impacts to plant, wildlife and trees, some of which are endangered or rare.
• Severe negative impacts to the Woodland Creek and the Esopus Creek, popular recreational fisheries.
• Severe negative economic impacts to the community, both during and after construction.
• Risk of negative impact ti\o the quality of water in the Ashokan Resevoir which supplies up to 40% of water to New York City. It is currently unfiltered and the cost of a filtration plant would be in the billions of dollars.
While I am not a scientist, I have read many more detailed articles relating to the items I mention above. And yes, my concerns are also personal with a view towards future generations and the impact this would have, while ultimately not helping mitigate the effects of  global warming in a significant way. The damage outweighs the benefit.
The project also looks to run roughshod over many environmental laws and protections currently  in place, both nationally and in the State of New York laws.
Lastly, the preliminary proposal  from Premium Energy Holdings is poorly written and shows little understanding of the area they propose to use for this project.  I question whether they even have the ability to follow through with the project, much less the capital.
I urge you to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.
Sincerely,
Douglas Gillespie
624 Woodland Valley Road,
Phoenicia, NY 12464


