

Leanne Avery, Olivebridge, NY.
Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426

Re: Project P-15056 Ashokan Pumped Storage 

Dear Secretary Bose:

In their 4/8/2021 comments submitted to FERC, the DEP comprehensively captured the magnitude of damage that would come from approving P-15056 where no precautionary principle was considered. In extraordinary detail, the DEP clearly described this poorly-conceived, inappropriate and dangerous project that puts 9 million people at risk by contaminating their drinking water (e.g., increased turbidity, toxic cyanobacterial blooms (Monger, 2021)). Moreover, P-15056 is inconsistent with our state constitution that forever protects the Catskill Preserve (Article XIV), does not adhere to FERC guidelines, is fundamentally flawed by the authors’ lack of understanding of close-looped systems, and is morally and ethically vacant.

Since the DEP has already demonstrated that P-15056 is highly problematic, I use my 6000 characters to shed light on the Complex Connectivity of Place and the toxic impacts that result from disrupting ecosystems, people, and place.

Context: My family has inhabited the Catskills since the 1700s. The Moonhaw site contains ruins of my family homestead. 

Background: I am a Professor of Rural STEM Education whose research entails documenting local rural knowledge connected to people, ecosystems and place.  I am a first generation college graduate of Cornell University whose land-grant mission is rooted in agriculture, history and place. As a former co-editor of a community development journal and NSF proposal reviewer, I evaluate proposals scientifically, realistically, critically and pay particular attention to how authors adhere to guidelines. Thus, I evaluate the Ashokan Pumped Storage project through a “whole-cost” lens. My familiarity with processes by which corporations make proposals that wrongfully place the burden of proof on communities impacted (CDER, 2021), also informs my perspective. 

Complex Connectivity of Place: Connection between people and place is extremely complex and well-documented in Indigenous and non-Indigenous literatures (Basso, 1996; Fikret & Berkes, 2008; Kassam, 2009:2020; Joppa, et al, 2016; Smith, 2013; Ruelle et al, 2019) and neuroscience and environmental psychology alike (Hebgeb & Kistemann, 2012; Rollero & DePiccoli, 2010; Williams & Seward, 1998). “Socio-cultural and ecological systems are linked through relationships between people and their environment, which includes both relations between humans and relations between humans and other animals, plants and their habitats [Wohlleben, 2016]...thus illuminating the complex connectivity of human ecological relations" (Kassam, 2010, p. 2). These connections begin at an early age as evidenced by photodocumentation interviews with 100 NYS rural children (Avery & Kassam, 2011), and include social, emotional and behavioral components. Research also shows that the cognitive relevance of Indigenous and rural knowledge is critical to survival (Kassam, Avery & Ruelle, 2017). Knowledge, memory, stories, identity, and community is intertwined with, and attached to, place (Avery & Hains, 2017).  Significant interactions between people and the natural environment have been recognized as cultural landscapes (UNESCO, 2021). Simply put, place is more than a zip code.

Context matters: This region was taken by eminent domain in the early 1900s to build the Ashokan Reservoir. The towns of Olive and Hurley including villages/hamlets of West Hurley, Glenford, Ashton, Olive Branch, Brown's Station, Olivebridge, Olive City, Brodhead's Bridge, Shokan, West Shokan and Boiceville, were taken or relocated. These rural communities' sense of place, identity, and their alternative ways of knowing and being that are in relationship with the ecosystems - were disrupted or forever lost in the flooding. We were then colonized for water, and now energy (Beisaw, 2016; Thomas, 2015). P-15056 involves a for-profit corporation from California inaccurately using a map program to situate a project that will again disrupt communities, ecosystems and place. This project aims to again colonize the same rural communities and repeats the intergenerational trauma caused by the first takings (Avery, 2019). Disruption from place is an evisceration, not a change of address. 

Renewable energy production/storage is an important infrastructure to consider and how/when/where it is done, is equally important. The research and arguments herein suggests that multiple ways of knowing drawn from diverse sociocultural and ecological contexts contributes to conservation values that must inform effective sustainability practices (Kassam & Avery, 2013). P-15056 is devoid of these epistemological and ontological understandings.

Lastly, as a Commission whose charge is to protect people from harm, FERC must realize that this comment process disenfranchises community members who do not have access to technology, high speed internet or deliberative public spaces. Our elderly (intergenerational trauma survivors from the first taking) need to engage in face-to-face public discourse to make key decisions. This comment process does not allow all voices to be heard. 

Summary: P-15056 is an ill-conceived morally and ethically vacant proposal. Our community has spent 1000’s of hours researching this, seemingly more than Premium Energy spent writing multiple submissions. I find this offensive. 

For the reasons set forth herein, I respectfully request FERC reject this proposal once and for all, and put an end to this incompetent endeavor before it damages the NYC Water Supply System, environment, people, and place. FERC has the power to prevent these harms, and an ethical responsibility to do so.


Sincerely,

Dr. Leanne M. Avery, Olivebridge, NY 12461

References cited are available upon request.


