

Wendy Wolfenson, West Shokan, NY.
Docket P-15056
Premium Energy’s application for a Permit for the Ashokan Reservoir 

Numerous factual errors and omissions, in both the original and amended applications, all point to the conclusion that FERC should deny the application for Premium Energy’s Ashokan Pumped Storage project, P-15056.  There is no justifiable reason to allow this company, with its sloppy and incompetent application, to proceed with a potentially life-threatening and definitely community-altering project.

A few of the many shortcomings in Premium Energy’s application are:

1)	Some of the roads in the area are absolutely unable to sustain the level of heavy-duty construction required to build the project.  Specifically, Moonhaw Road, where the Wittenberg Dam would be built, has a weight limit of 20 tons on a bridge that would be traveled by construction vehicles hundreds of thousands of times.  Since the weight of a single concrete truck is 33 tons (13 for the truck and 20 for the cement alone), the project cannot be completed without upgrading and widening the access road.  This would involve taking additional residential property, on either side of that road, to create a road that can sustain the upper reservoir construction.  Premium fails to acknowledge this issue at all or to address who will be forced to pay for the road upgrade.  They neglect to address that many more separate residential properties will be diminished or taken entirely, simply for the project construction.

2)	Premium incorrectly lists “Ridgeline Timber Services” as a political subdivision and as only 1 of 2 local municipalities with an interest in the project.  First, Ridgeline is a company, not a municipality.  Of equal significance, Ridgeline has not had any contact with Premium Energy, Ridgeline’s name was used without permission and the owner is personally opposed to the project.  This speaks to an incredibly sloppy application process by Premium that should not be rewarded with a permit to proceed, least of all in an expedited manner.

3)	The Work Plan in Premium’s application (p. 19) states “Therefore, assessing the project site’s suitability for construction of the new dams.”  This is not even a sentence and makes absolutely no sense.

4)	Premium’s plan for the hydro-plant under the Ashokan Reservoir in West Shokan would place that plant roughly 500 feet from the only Public Library in the Town of Olive.  In addition to the traditional library functions, this particular Library serves as a public meeting site, assists with tax preparation, houses classes in music and art for children, teens and adults, presents movies, hosts art exhibits and is the repository of the Town’s historical artifacts.  Even though the 2-acre hydro plant will be located 300 feet underground, the disruption caused by the construction of such a huge facility will undoubtedly make access to the library difficult, if not impossible, for a period of years.  The nearest Public Libraries are 10 and 14 miles away and do not support functions specifically related to the Town of Olive.  Moreover, given the distance of these other libraries, it is extremely likely that seniors, many of whom have difficulty driving on unfamiliar roads and who benefit greatly from community activities, would suffer an especially acute loss.

5)	During the construction phase of the project, it is evident that NY State Route 28A (a 2-lane road) would need to be closed for long periods of time.  This road is the only direct means of travel from various points within the town.  Such a closure would necessitate drivers traveling around the Ashokan Reservoir.  This would turn an 8-minute drive for the nearest groceries and all schools into a 25-minute drive.  It would also negatively impact the ability for emergency services (fire, ambulance and police) to reach town residents and could create fatal consequences. 

6)	Premium continues to use maps that are fuzzy and vague in its amended submission, despite FERC’s request for clearer maps. The visual presentation obscures important facts of the application, specifically the relationship of reservoirs, dams and tunnels to local towns and private property.  The maps Premium submits incorrectly suggest that this is a proposal in an uninhabited area.  They fail to include existing roads, towns or other relevant facts that would enable residents to understand the proximity of the project to their homes, the potential to render their homes completely inaccessible or the likelihood that their homes would be taken by Eminent Domain.  It is evident from Premium’s website that they have access to excellent graphic artists.  The only conclusion one can draw is that Premium is being deliberately vague and confusing and/or is indifferent to the communities it proposes to harm.


7)	There is no mention that mitigation will be required for potential seismic activity.  Although Premium Energy acknowledges that it will perform Seismological Studies as part of the next phase, there is no indication that it will prepare a mitigation plan as well.  As recently as March 11, 2020, there was a 3.1 tremor in Glens Falls and on June 23, 2020, there was a tremor that was felt in nearby Kingston that “rattles building” (geo.mtu.edu).  In 1885, which is a tiny blip in geological time, there was a 3.4 quake in the area (ideo.columbia.edu).  Given the size and volume of the proposed upper reservoirs, a seismic event could be catastrophic to the downstream residents.  Premium needs to address this factor and prepare a detailed seismic mitigation plan before proceeding.

We cannot trust a company that is so inept and careless, at best, and deceptive and mercenary at worst.  The permit application of Premium Energy should be denied outright.  At a bare minimum, Premium should be compelled to resubmit their application, correcting any and all of the deficiencies. Premium Energy should not, under any circumstances, be allowed to proceed.

Wendy Wolfenson
April 11, 2021

