

Jay B. Killin, Phoenicia, NY.
J. Blake Killin
P. O. Box 248 296 Route 214 Phoenicia, NY 12466
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First St. NE
Room 1A
Washington, DC 20426
Docket No. P-15056-000 Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing to voice my opposition to the proposed Premium Energy Holdings plan to flood our communities to build a hydroelectric power plant. Much of the land that will be flooded is part of the New York State Forest Preserve and is designated as “Forever Wild” per the state Constitution. Per state law, an amendment to the state Constitution requires a vote by those involved and if passed, it will require approval from the State Legislature by two successive votes. That will take at least two, maybe three years so this project cannot be fast-tracked, by law.
This land cannot be taken via eminent domain per the Watershed Memorandum of Agreement of January 21, 1997 with New York City which established land acquisition requirements which set more stringent regulations to those of New York State. Under those requirements, land can only be purchased from willing sellers at fee simple and cannot be acquired by eminent domain. If New York City is obligated to follow these regulations, Premium Energy cannot seize property with the stoke of a pen.
Under the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, projects such as proposed by Premium Energy must undergo stringent public review. First of all, a “lead agency” must be named to oversee these proceedings. To my knowledge, Premium Energy has not applied for a permit under NYSEQRA, but only through FERC. Some entity like the state Department of Environmental Conservation would have to be appointed as Lead Agency to oversee these required hearings.
Premium Energy will have to prove its project will not have a negative impact on water quality, such as turbidity, siltation and pollution as it will have to dig up this land which contains numerous cesspools and septic systems. Transporting all this demolition debris will have to be done via roads through deep mountain valleys. The applicant will have to prove its actions will not have a negative impact on water quality.
Then there is the issue of destroying some of the nation’s premium trout habitats that attracts hundreds of anglers per year. Flooding these valley’s will destroy wild trout
spawning grounds and have a negative impact on the economic livelihood of the remaining residents of the Catskill Watershed.
Premium Energy has not proven it has explored alternatives to its proposal for the Catskill Watershed such as land in the Adirondack Mountains that is unpopulated or less populated as is required by NYSEQRA. Sure, it would cost Premium Energy more money to use unpopulated land in the Adirondacks but what is the cost to the communities in the Catskill Watershed?
So I ask FEFC to deny a permit to Premium Energy and follow the procedures that are required of everyone in New York State.
J. Blake Killin

