

Jodi La Marco, OLIVEBRIDGE, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in opposition to the ill-conceived proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Preserve. While I understand and support green energy initiatives in New York State, the cost of this proposed project far outweighs its benefits. 

I’m a member of the Catskill 3500 Club, a hiking group that grants membership to those who have climbed the 35 highest peaks in the Catskills. I hike in the Catskills regularly and have seen the popularity of the Catskills Forest Preserve grow wildly during the pandemic. Our area has been attracting a record number of both locals and visitors from nearby New York City. In the most recent issue of The Canister (the 3500 Club newsletter), it was announced that on January 13th, 2021, two of the 35 peaks required for club entry—Doubletop and Graham—were permanently closed to the public. “We all have seen how the number of hikers in the Catskills has increased in the past few years and COVID-19 has just been a part of that – this was happening pre-COVID-19 as well. With more people pursuing the 35…the traffic on these mountains (and everywhere) is expanding. The impact on the natural resources is evident and the landowners have taken this step to enhance the health of the ecosystem and protect the flora and fauna. Consequently, the family has decided that the mountains they love need to make the return back to their original wilderness state.”

In a press release dated November 20, 2020, the Catskill Center also reported an increase in visitors to the park, stating, “the number of visitors to the Catskill Park and our open spaces are growing, just ask the Stewards of the Catskill Center’s Catskill Stewards Program, who saw a 27% increase in the number of visitors they greeted in the Catskill Park during the 2020 season.” 

While the Covid-19 crisis has encouraged more people to recreate outside, the park’s increase in popularity will not end with the pandemic. Many of these visitor have become so enamored with the Catskill area, that they have caused a housing boom (please see this June 17th, 2020 article from the New York Times entitled “A run on the Catskills”: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/17/realestate/a-run-on-the-catskills.html.) 

The placement of any of the proposed new reservoirs would add to the problem caused by the recent influx of visitor and new residents by putting increased strain on remaining hiking access points. The ill-conceived placement of these reservoirs would also make travel difficult.

Indeed, the New York New Jersey Trail Conference (NYNJTC) has stated, “The road closures in the proposed pumped storage project eliminate vital access points to popular hiking destinations and recreational resources. The elimination of these trailheads will force increased usage in other areas of the Forest Preserve and magnify the negative ecological impacts that we have observed over the past 12 months due to unprecedented visitation on these trails during the pandemic.” 

The Wittenberg reservoir would submerge the end of Moonhaw Road, which serves as an access point to Friday, Balsam Cap, Lone, and Rocky mountains. The Woodland Valley reservoir would flood Woodland Valley Road, which provides access to Wittenberg and Cornell Mountains, and to Woodland Valley Campground. The Stony Clove reservoir would arguably create the most dramatic problems for motorist journeying northward from Route 28. Just north of the proposed reservoir is the Devil’s Tombstone Campground, as well as trailheads providing access to Plateau and Hunter Mountains, two popular mountains along the famed “Devil’s Path” hiking trail. All of the mountains listed above are popular with hikers, as each is a 3500 Club-required hike. 

The most troubling road interference is the proposed interruption of Route 214. Due to the fact that the road passes between Plateau and Hunter Mountains, it would be impossible to reroute this road. Travel from Lanesville to Tannersville via Route 214 currently takes 13 minutes according to Google Maps. The same trip would take an hour via Route 212 and Platte Clove Road to the east, or 50 minutes via Route 42 to the west. These would be the most direct routes available should access on Route 214 be interrupted.

Simply put, the quaint little towns of upstate New York are no longer quaint little towns. The population and usage of our area has swelled drastically during the past year, and the increase in permanent residents indicates that the popularity of our area is unlikely to lessen once the Covid-19 pandemic has come to an end. More people are visiting the Catskill Forest Preserve than ever before, resulting in more stress on the park. At this critical time, we need more environmental protections for this state-designated “forever wild” zone, not additional conservation challenges.

It is clear that Premium Energy Holdings is woefully unfamiliar with our area. I respectfully request that this company be denied the right to conduct a preliminary study for this poorly thought out project. 

Thank you,

Jodi La Marco


