

Stacy Quinn, Rhinebeck, NY.
I am writing regarding docket # P-15056 and the proposed pumped-storage hydroelectric facility.  

I am very strongly opposed to the new Catskills-based pumped-storage hydroelectric facility proposed by Premium Energy Holdings of Southern California.

I am sure that this project has an economic upside for the shareholders of Premium Energy Holdings.  There is no upside for current or future residents of the area, however, and there are many, many downsides. 
 
The Catskills are protected by NY State as a State Preserve for good reason.  They contain valuable geological and natural environments that are unique and, if damaged, irreplaceable.  Our current generations have been fortunate to inherit them in relatively undamaged condition and we have a responsibility to future generations to hand them off in equally good condition. 

The Catskills region is also a vital recreational area.  Area residents and tourists alike rely on it for mental and physical health.  On a personal note, it has been a critical resource for me and my friends as we navigate the covid pandemic.  And the soaring traffic/usage numbers over the past year demonstrate how similarly vital it has been for many, many others.  In addition to its physical and mental health benefits, it is an economic lifeline for the region.  Tourism is the backbone of the local economy and we cannot afford to jeopardize the regional financial ecosystem.  

Finally, this proposed project has potential to interfere with the quality and increase the cost of drinking water for NY City residents.  This project has been introduced with minimal public oversight or discussion and the time period for public comment is very brief.  If NY City residents were aware of this proposal, though, and had an opportunity to provide input, I expect it would be VERY strongly opposed.  

I have heard that the supposed justification for this proposed project is that it increases the availability of ‘clean’ energy.  Granted, this pumped-storage facility would provide an alternative to carbon-based energy.  That does not automatically make it a worthwhile or beneficial project, however.  NY is already benefiting from a growing solar energy supply and we do NOT need to implement a detrimental project like this in order to decrease our dependence on carbon-based energy.  

In summary, for all of the reasons stated above – I STRONGLY oppose this proposal as it would harm NY residents in myriad ways without any corresponding benefits and the only people who would benefit from our misfortune would be a small group of outside investors.  Please support American democracy and make a decision that protects the residents of this state instead of selling us out to outside interests, as in a third world authoritarian regime. 


