

Catherine White, Roxbury, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Dear Secretary Bose,

I am writing as a homeowner in the Catskill Mountains and a part-time resident of NYC to urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holding’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage (Project P-15056). As someone who is currently studying climate science, I recognize the urgent need for renewable energy storage at scale, and understand that our communities will need to make sacrifices for our clean energy future. However, flooding the pristinely protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve—which protects biodiversity and acts as an important natural carbon sink—is not the answer. The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country.

As a NYC resident I am also concerned about potential impacts to the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. New York City Department of Environmental Conservation invests heavily in purchasing land in this area in order to protect the water supply for the longterm. Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

My understanding of the proposal is that it is not “closed-loop” as it claims, but an add-on to an existing reservoir. This makes me question Premium Energy’s transparency and methodologies. 

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.
Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Catherine White

