

Andy Laster, Chichester, NY.
To:

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I urge you to deny Premium Energy Holdings a preliminary permit to conduct further study on its proposed hydroelectric power plant in the Catskill Mountains.

The Catskill Forest Preserve is not the right site for this project. Under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Under the United States Geological Survey’s “Gap Analysis Program,” the Catskills are considered Status 1 land. According to the Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” Furthermore, all three of the sites being considered for construction of an upper reservoir in Premium Energy’s proposal fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Areas.  

Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water, which threaten both aquatic and land habitats. Altering the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus, such as the Stony Clove, will alter the sediment regime in the Esopus, one of the Catskills most vital trout waters and part of New York City's water supply. 

This project will damage local communities through displacement and negatively impact the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. It will significantly reduce the very small number of swimming sites in the Catskills, which are along the Esopus and Stony Clove.

A broad coalition of concerned citizens and organizations will fight this project tooth and nail, but knocking it out from the start will allow experts to work toward genuine solutions to our energy needs.

Sincerely,

Andy Laster

