

Christine Manaker, Hoboken, NJ.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426
Docket number P-15056-000



Dear Ms. Bose,
I am writing to urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holdings’ request for a preliminary permit to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. The company’s proposed plan for Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056 would devastate a pristine and protected environment, disrupt and displace local communities, negatively impact the region’s tourism economy, and put at risk a major source of New York City’s drinking water—the Ashokan Reservoir, which provides 40% of the city’s water and is the largest unfiltered water supply in the United States. 

The Catskills Forest Preserve in Ulster County—700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat protected under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution—is guaranteed to be “forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Under the USGS Gap Analysis Program, the Catskills Forest Preserve is considered Status 1 land, and according to the Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 … are avoided for development.” Furthermore, any changes in State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment and voted on by two consecutive state-legislature sessions before proceeding to the public in a referendum.

In addition, Premium Energy’s proposal would severely damage (if not destroy) local communities, requiring the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain—a scenario already experienced by local communities a century ago, when construction of the Ashokan displaced 25 communities and thousands of residents. I grew up in Ulster County, where my family still lives, and spend at least 7 weeks each year just a few miles from the Ashokan. Because the county has a serious housing shortage, with an accompanying jump in real estate prices, residents displaced by the proposed pumped-storage project would have difficulty finding new housing locally. Prices have skyrocketed as a result of surging demand from urbanites seeking vacation homes during the coronavirus pandemic and attracted by the region’s natural beauty and recreational opportunities. 

One must factor in the proposed project’s negative effects on the Catskills region’s growing tourism economy, a $1.6 billion industry that supports some 20,000 jobs (or 17% of employment in the region; as of 2019). Ulster County accounts for 43% of this market. The project would cause severe traffic disruptions to main thoroughfares, including, most likely, to Route 214, a scenic byway and one of only two roads connecting the Catskills’ two main highways (routes 28 and 23A). The town of Phoenicia and the Hunter Mountain resort would be among the communities experiencing these negative effects.  

The proposed project also would limit access to fishing, hiking, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills—major tourism draws—and forever alter the Ashokan’s beautiful landscape, itself the setting for biking, skating, boating, and sunset-watching. My 84-year-old mother regularly and frequently walks at the reservoir, along with other locals and visitors from all over the country and the world.  

Although Premium Energy is attempting to bill this as a closed-loop project, which would be considered for streamlined FERC approval, its proposal to add an upper reservoir to an existing lower one is in actuality an “add-on” project. The proposal’s misrepresentation is certainly a red flag. Such projects tend to result in greater operational impacts than closed-loop projects; pumped-storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid water fluctuations, which significantly disrupt both land and water habitats. Premium Energy’s project would increase the Ashokan watershed’s turbidity and negatively affect New York City’s drinking water. Altering the sediment regime in Esopus Creek tributaries, the project would result in an altered sediment regime in the Esopus itself—one of the best-known and most vital trout waters in the Catskills (and beyond) and part of New York City’s water supply. 

As we eye more renewable energy sources, the tradeoff must not be environmental and community devastation. We cannot sacrifice vulnerable communities, protected wilderness, and drinking water and other natural resources. The costs are too high. Please deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,
Christine Manaker


