

Henrietta Wise, Olivebridge, NY.
From:                                                                            April 10, 2021
Henrietta Wise
208 Krumville Road
Olivebridge, New York 12461


To:

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.


Docket number P-15056-000


Dear Ms. Bose,


I am writing for myself and my family to list some good reasons why FERC must deny a dangerously faulty preliminary permit application by Premium Energy Holdings LLC, to study the feasibility of building a hydroelectric stored power plant on the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding watershed: Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.


The Ashokan Reservoir is known by scientists throughout the world for the millions of lives it supplies with fresh water without fear of the contamination so many other reservoirs throughout our and many other countries suffer (including the toxic chemistries usually applied to kill pathogens)  because untold millions of people's watersheds have been breached by greedy industries and poor oversight.


The Ashokan Reservoir's watershed covers 255 square miles of the rainwater and snowmelt accumulating through the waters of eleven Towns in Ulster, Greene and Delaware Counties. Those waters are tended by protected ecologies - many legally protected.


Premium Energy's proposed new 216-acre reservoir with it's Open Loop system - Not "Closed Loop" as the company has falsely claimed in its application - would introduce destructive fluctuations into the Ashokan Reservoir's waters e.g., lowering and raising them via a foreign, imposed system. The resulting increase in raparian damage and turbidity alone would no doubt cost the DEP it's hard-won Filtration Avoidance Determination from the EPA triggering the necessity for filtration at the present amount of $10 billion. 

 Accordingly, this ill-conceived project presents a clear and alarming legal precident and physical danger to the waters and carefully time-proven monitoring of them for their safety for not only 9 million lives in New York City; 70 communities North of the City; the protected ecologies and waters of the Ashokan Reservoir Watershed territories in all eleven towns of three counties in the Catskills but, equally alarmingly to the three protected Catskill Forest Preserve territories around which and directly into which the Premium Energy Holdings reservoirs are proposed to be built: Stony Clove in Lanesville; Woodland Valley Road in Phoenicia and Maltby Hollow Brook in the Town of Olive.

 The Catskill Forest Preserve is protected as "Forever Wild" (Article XIV NYS Constitution).  The Preserve protects and serves as Catskills' finest scenic recreational and ecological destinations for International fishermen and a fast-growing multitude of tourists.  Its protected beauty is international.  To breach State Constitutional law to allow egress to a private corporation sets a forbidden legal precedent in our system.

Audubon has designated the Preserve as an "Important Bird Area."  The Preserve contains multitudes of birds and Protected Species.  In this unprecedented time of the death of one-third of all the birds in America, All must be made to understand that the Catskill Forest Preserve Must be Carefully Guarded.

The Catskill Forest Preserve has been designated by the United States Geological Service as "Status 2 Lands." The Department of Energy's own Hydropower Vision says "Areas with Formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under USGS's Gap Analysis Program, are avoided for development."  For example: Whittenberg Dam area is USGS designated as "Status 2."

I do not know the heads of Premium Energy Holdings, but judging from the glaring mistakes found by the DEP and other reliable sources in their preliminary permit, I believe they must not be allowed to endanger our very precious water systems anywhere at all.

Thank you for keeping our lives, kid's lives and the integrity of our States' waters and ecology highest in your decision.

Sincerely,

Henrietta Wise



 
















