

Richard B. Boyd, Vienna, VA.
Ms. Kimberly D. Bose                                                                                                                            Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)                                                                                      888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C.  20426. 

REGARDING: FERC Project Number P-15056:000

Dear FERC Reviewers,

I am opposed to approval of the request for a preliminary permit by Premium Energy (FERC Project Number P-15056-000) to conduct studies on building a pumped storage hydropower project utilizing the Ashokan reservoir.

I am a co-owner, with my sister Ruth Boyd Kletzander, of a summer cabin located at lot 28, Roxmor Colony, 724 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia, New York 12464.  We have a strong interest in the appropriate development of renewable energy infrastructure in the United States, and my review of the current request by Premium Energy referenced above prompts me to voice my strong opposition to this proposal for pumped storage hydropower.

There are two primary areas that I believe should be considered in the assessment of the request.  These demonstrate why this proposal is not a good choice for sustainable energy development in the United States, and serve as a basis for denial of the request.  They are:

1)	Premium Energy’s proposal would involve development of land in the Catskill State Forest Preserve that is designated as “Status 2” under the United States Geological Survey “Gap Analysis Program.”  I reference and agree with the 2016 United States Department of Energy (DoE) "Hydropower Vision" publication which indicates in section 3.3.4 (5) under Protected Lands that “Areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the U.S. Geological Survey’s Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”

and

2)	The Premium Energy proposal does not provide clear information regarding the basic nature of the project.  The proposal states that “The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop;” however, this statement is not supported by the proposal’s use of the open Ashokan Reservoir as the lower reservoir.  Based on the information presented in the proposal, the project is an “Open-Loop add-on” pumped storage hydropower project, since the project’s lower reservoir (the existing Ashokan Reservoir) would still be continuously connected to the natural flowing water feature (i.e., the Esopus Creek) that was dammed for the original construction of the Ashokan Reservoir.  Due to this basic inconsistency, the proposal is inadequate and should be rejected.  Further, because the project is an Open-Loop add-on, it would not have some of the likely environmental benefits associated with a traditional Closed-Loop pumped storage hydropower project.  As proposed, it appears the project would impact the water of the Ashokan Reservoir which is relied upon by myriad users for drinking water and serves as an ecological habitat for fish and wildlife.  I refer to, and agree with, the April 2020 DoE HydroWires publication: "A Comparison of the Environmental Effects of Open-Loop and Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower" which notes that, regarding certain Open-Loop add-on projects (similar to the Premium Energy proposal), “…the impacts of project operations would still likely be higher than for closed-loop because the add-on project’s lower reservoir is still continuously connected to and affects a naturally flowing water feature.”  I also note that as an Open-Loop add-on project, the Premium Energy proposal does not meet the criteria for expedited processing by FERC.

In addition, I have strong concerns regarding: the potential environmental impact the proposal could have on the fish and wildlife habitats and vegetation in the affected streams/waterways and related areas; the potential adverse impact on places of historical significance; and economic impacts to the area which relies on a substantial amount of tourism. 

Based on the above concerns, Premium Energy's proposal (FERC Project number P-15056-000) is not a good choice for sustainable energy development in the Ashokan reservoir region, and it does not align with the FERC's vision of responsible environmental stewardship in the development of hydropower in the United States.

I strongly urge FERC to deny Premium Energy’s request for a preliminary permit (FERC Project Number P-15056-000).

Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments. 

Sincerely,

Richard B. Boyd
217 Moore Avenue, SE
Vienna, Virginia  22180  


