

Edward Ripley-Duggan, Olivebridge, NY.
The Catskill region is an ecologically sensitive one, already under some threat from a wide spectrum of factors. Changing temperatures that impact forest health, invasive species, anthropogenic pressures, development and a host of other circumstances already impinge on this, one of New York State’s most beloved parks. That somehow the admittedly very real threat of climate change and the acknowledged need for green energy should justify a proposal that would materially effect the integrity of the region that supplies most of New York City’s drinking water, and is one of its foremost outdoor recreational resources, is staggeringly misguided.

There are, after all,  a variety of other mass energy storage mediums than pumped storage. Some are presently viable. Others will need further research before they can be considered seriously. Few of them, however, require such onerous location requirements as pumped storage hydropower. The use of this easy-fix technology would create irrevocable damage, unacceptable in a region of such critical environmental sensitivity. 

Electrical storage technologies presently technically close to full feasibility include hydrogen energy storage, utilizing fuel-cell or combustion technologies for regeneration. That same hydrogen could also be profitably sold to power  the fleets of fuel-cell powered cars that seem likely to be on the roads in a few years.  Another technology that is ready for prime time is compressed-air energy storage, which can be situated underground. There are in addition a variety of other technologies that are technologically more demanding than these, but which should be ready to bring on line over the next decade, if enough demand exists (superconducting mass energy storage and super-capacitors are both potentially feasible at large scale). Ultimately, a variety of localized energy storage methods are likely to be needed and used. From an environmental perspective, pumped hydro storage is far and away the least attractive and unquestionably the most destructive of methods of mass energy storage. 

I’m not sure that the full implications of pumped storage on the region have been appreciated. Are we prepared to see vast arrays of transmission towers in the region; power must, after all, be bought in to be stored, and lined back out. Tunnel systems that dwarf the Gilboa-Shandaken tunnel are quite customary in such projects; are we ready for that? The enormous burden and disruption to local communities created by heavy equipment passing through to these industrial construction sites in our valleys seems not to have been considered in this proposal. And the list of negatives goes on. This region sacrificed greatly a century ago for the construction of the Ashokan Reservoir and other components of the New York water supply system, and to some extent still does. Let this not happen again.

The bottom line is that pumped storage hydro is an old, and in essence, technologically lazy fix to energy needs, be it for primary electrical generation or for energy storage. Globally speaking, large dam projects have caused an immense amount of irrevocable environmental loss and human displacement. While there is a compelling need for green energy sources, for these to be created at the cost of massive environmental degradation is an unacceptable way forward. 


