

Ben Perowsky, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 

I have been living on the banks of the Maltby Hallow Creek in the middle of the Catskill Watershed (NYC's drinking water source) on a dead end road next to miles of FOREVER WILD protected STATUS 1 land for the past 16 years.
I am part of the Catskills community that would like to bring awareness to a pending proposal from Premium Energy: FERC project and sub- docket number: P-15056. Premium Energy has applied for a preliminary permit to conduct studies on building a pumped storage plant utilizing the Ashokan reservoir. 

This project raises major environmental concerns and we ask that this permit be denied based on information in this letter along with additional information which is being provided from Interveners and concerned citizens. 

It is essential to note that Premium Energy is misrepresenting this project by describing it as a closed loop project. According to hydro power experts, this is not a closed loop project. It is an add-on project which will have much more of a detrimental environmental impact than a closed loop project. This misinformation used to push the project forward is deeply troubling to this community and raises our concern over Premium Energies practices. 

 A site where the storage facilities is being proposed is designated Forever Wild. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  
 All the sites in this proposal are within the Catskills, which is designated as Status 1 land. According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” Yet, this is what is being proposed.
 
 The Protected Three Birds Orchid currently live at the end of Maltby Hollow Creek and both sides of the upper Dry Brook where one storage facility is being proposed. These sites are registered in the Biological and Conservation Database for North America. All proposed sites in this project are noted by the Audubon society as a “Catskills Peaks Important Bird Area.” 

 The sites in this project are foraging habitats for NY-threatened northern long-eared bat and habitat for NY-Species of Greatest Conservation Need, black-throated blue warbler, scarlet tanager, and wood thrush, as well as NY-Special Concern raptors Cooper’s hawk, red-shouldered hawk, and sharp-shinned hawk. It is also habitat for NY-Special Concern eastern hognose snake and NY-Threatened timber rattlesnake. Not to mention that it is current habitat for Black Bears, Eagles, Mink, Egrets, Owls, Bobcats, Beavers and many other wildlife species which would be greatly impacted by the plan.

 In addition, Maltby Hollow Creek, Wittenberg Brook and the Esopus are trout waters and trout spawning habitat. Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which can wreak havoc on aquatic and land habitats. Sediment in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters. Valuable trout breeding habitat will be lost.
Our community understands the need for clean energy and for pumped storage. However, these proposed locations are in the habitat of threatened species. Forever Wild areas and Status 1 protected land. 
 I ask that you deny this permit based on these essential points, and that they look for some other non threatening site for their work. 

Thank you for your time,  
Sincerely,
 
Ben Perowsky
153 Moon Haw Rd.
West Shokan, N.Y. 12494

