

Mei Zheng, Lanesville, NY.
I question the credibility and qualifications of Victor M. Rojas and Premium Energy Holdings, LLC. Given the significant impact of this project on the local residents and the ecology of the Catskill Forest Preserve, this firm should have at a minimum given a courtesy notice to the key stakeholders - most notably the NYC Department of Environmental Protection and the local municipal governments affected prior to submitting a preliminary application. Premium Energy Holdings has a history of taking a hostile approach to these projects, including in Washoe County, Nevada, Inyo County, California and Walker Lake, Nevada without regard to environmental impact, tribal lands, or even basic feasibility analysis in a changing climate. This company surprises communities with these proposals under the guise of “renewable” energy without material considerations for cost-benefit analysis. There are red flags and severe deficiencies in the application itself. For example, the company states the location of the proposed project is strictly in Ulster County, NY. However, their proposed Stony Clove Reservoir is entirely located in Greene County. Victor M Rojas, a professional engineer swears in his application that the contents of the application are “true to the best of his knowledge or belief”. If he had done even a very basic level of research, he would find that material facts such as the geography upon which his application is based are untrue. This carelessness from the outset is a major red flag as to what other errors and omissions this firm would commit if the project were allowed to progress. 

The Ashokan Reservoir that Victor Rojas proposes to pump water out of serves New York City, the largest city in the United States. This is a valuable resource protected by the NYC DEP and cannot be subject to the fanciful whims and experimentation of a private for profit company on the other side of the country. In recent years, the Ashokan Reservoir has had low water levels due to drought. Pumping water out of the reservoir will further exacerbate this problem due to evaporation. 

The application states that the Ashokan Reservoir water levels will fluctuate by 2 feet during operation of this power plant. This significant water movement not only accelerates evaporation but further disturbs the marine life in the reservoir. The impact is not only limited to the fisheries in the reservoir but the entire food chain. For example, the Ashokan is home to a large population of bald eagles that have made a remarkable comeback in recent years and relies on the fisheries of the Ashokan Reservoir to thrive. This project will undoubtedly have adverse ecological consequences far and wide both during construction and operation. 

Let’s be clear, Premium Energy Holdings has no track record of completing ANY successful projects of this size and scope. Do not indulge Victor M. Rojas and his company in this exercise of pure hubris. 

Let us also not forget the findings in the report submitted to the United States Congress by the Staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in May 2017 titled “Report on the Pilot Two-Year Hydroelectric Licensing Process for Non-Powered Dams and Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Projects and Recommendations Pursuant to Section 6 of the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013”. The report clearly outlines to developers the proper characteristics and approach they should take to licensing. 

In terms of design, “the project would not alter existing flow regimes or cause significant impoundment fluctuations; minimal land clearing would be required; and for projects at non-federal dams, the existing structures satisfy the Commission’s Dam Safety Guidelines.” Premium Energy Holdings is seeking to significantly alter the existing flow regimes of the Stony Clove Creek,  impound water over the major New York State highway NY-214, necessitating this highway to be rerouted, and clear hundreds of acres of land in the Catskill Forest Preserve protected as “forever wild” by Article XIV of the NYS Constitution. 

In terms of environmental characteristics, “there are few, or only minor environmental concerns, for example: there would be no significant change to water quality parameters such as dissolved oxygen concentration and temperature; the project would not significantly alter the flow regime at the project site; there would be little or no potential for project effects on migratory fish; and there would be no adverse effects on federally listed species and/or
habitat”. The sites proposed by Premium Energy Holdings have exceptional scenic, recreational, and ecological value according to the NYS DEC. Premium Energy Holdings’ proposed dam construction and up to 13+ miles of tunneling will undoubtedly have both severe immediate and residual adverse environmental consequences. 

In terms of information gathering and consultation, “stakeholders, especially agencies, are consulted early, and frequently during the term of the preliminary permit and pre-filing to identify, and reach a consensus on, appropriate environmental protection, mitigation, and enhancement (PM&E) measures that address project-related impacts. Premium Energy Holdings has made NO effort to notify nor consult the relevant stakeholders including the NYC DEP which owns the lands of the Ashokan Reservoir. 

In summary, Premium Energy Holdings has NO TRACK RECORD of successful projects of this size or scope, has failed to demonstrate the proper characteristics required of such a project, and has failed to take the proper approach to undertaking such a project. Victor Rojas and his firm has further demonstrated a lack of sufficient understanding of the sites based on deficiencies in his application and has repeated these failures in other sites around the country. Based on this, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission should promptly deny Premium Energy Holdings’ application for a Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

