

Joseph Spinelli, New York, NY.
To the employees of the FERC who are reviewing this application, let me begin by thanking you for taking the time to allow the home and business owners near the Ashokan Reservoir the opportunity to opine on this matter. I am currently a resident of New York City, but I grew up about a mile from the Ashokan Reservoir, and I currently own a home and business within about a mile of it. That said, my primary income comes from my career in finance in New York City, so I am involved in the energy markets, including the power market to some degree. Although I am not an expert on the electricity market, I do have a reasonable understanding of how it functions, as well as many of the mechanisms that determine pricing. Based on that background, I can only conclude that it would be a tragedy if this project is approved, as it will likely create very little, if any, benefit for local residents. In fact, from the limited data provided regarding the project, it looks like the bulk of the electricity generated will be used to pump water back and forth by the company, and not for the benefit of consumers. Isn't it interesting that Premium Energy Holdings decided to submit this application without ever having discussed it with the State of New York, New York City, or the local residents? All this application says is that a company, with no history, understanding or contribution to the area, has figured out a way to make money off of a venture. This would be distasteful to anyone in any town, but it is particularly obnoxious given the significant amounts of taxpayer money that goes to maintaining the Ashokan Reservoir, and the surrounding land, in order to protect it as a primary source of drinking water for New York City. To the locals, the reservoir is very special, as it a magnificent place that not only benefits millions of residents as a source of drinking water, but also as a wonderful example of how conservation and recreation can work hand-in-hand to protect and celebrate our most precious of natural resources. All of that said, I am not debating the need for innovation, as it is at the core of the US economy. However, let's make innovation make sense. Let's approve projects that are necessary, can have a massively positive impact on society, and let's do so in a way that protects the environment. Why would we destroy forests, the habitats of native species, and deface one of the most beautiful tourist destinations in the entire State of New York in order to move forward with a project that will produce no significant benefit to anyone? Thank you for your time and consideration.    

