

Seth S. Tannenbaum, Philadelphia, PA.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE
Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

March 14, 2021

Dear Kimberly D. Bose,

I am writing to express my overwhelming opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ short-sighted plan to build a hydroelectric plant in the Ashokan Reservoir region of Ulster County.

As my parents and several members of my extended family have indicated in their own comments, our family has owned a house in Woodland Valley for more than 75 years. The house and the valley it sits in are a family heirloom. While we own the house, the valley and its natural and relaxing beauty are accessible to all and are widely utilized. The state campground at the end of Woodland Valley Road, which would become inaccessible if Premium Energy Holdings’ plan comes to fruition, is an affordable way for anyone to enjoy the idyllic mountain air, water, hiking, and fishing in Woodland Valley. It attracts thousands of visitors annually who bring with them a tremendous positive economic impact on the surrounding communities and the businesses that call those communities home. Without those visitors and all of the others who come to rent houses in the valley, those businesses and the economy of Phoenicia and the surrounding communities would suffer tremendously.

Even conducting a study on the feasibility of such a foolish project would cause serious harm to the environment and natural beauty of the region. Building the temporary roads mentioned in Premium Energy Holdings’ filing will create air, noise, and water pollution and damage the environment.

Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal to use eminent domain to seize privately owned land is spurious. They are a private, for-profit entity asking the state to use a provision intended for the public good of all citizens for their own private profit. Moreover, nearly 75% of the power generated by the proposed plant will go to running the plant, leaving very little to supplement the existing power grid.

Even if there is a gain in terms of cheaper or additional energy, which seems far from guaranteed given this proposal, that gain is vastly outweighed by the economic cost in acquiring the privately-owned land, by the negative economic impact on the surrounding communities, by the negative environmental impact of destroying the natural flow of the Woodland Valley Creek, and by destroying and rendering inaccessible one of the most beautiful, tranquil, peaceful places in all of the United States: Woodland Valley, New York.

I urge the FERC to stop the wasteful, unnecessary destruction of Woodland Valley before it begins. Deny Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal before it ruins the lives, liberties, and ability to pursue happiness of the people of the region.

Sincerely,
Seth S. Tannenbaum, Ph.D.

