

Melissa A. Rabuffo, Chichester, NY.
Project Docket:  P-15056
Melissa Rabuffo, Chichester, N.Y.

As a resident of Chichester, NY in Ulster County, I am writing to oppose the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings.  I agree and support the national initiative to increase and transition to renewable energy. It is a necessary goal and objective nationally, as well as worldwide.  I am in support of reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and reducing the effects of climate change, but this proposal is not the right plan and it does not reflect the right kind of initiative which the Department of Energy should approve.   

This portion of the Catskill region, and all three proposed sites, are not the right location for this project due to its incredible impact to state preserved forest land, streams, and the New York City Water Supply.  It is also unlawful and in direct violation of the New York State Constitution and puts in question using public land for private gain. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  Any changes to the land management in the State Forest Preserve must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, and then submitted to the public in a referendum.  For that reason alone, this proposal misunderstands or does not take into account the logistical issues of such a project. 

The proposal itself is full of inaccuracies and lack of diligence which makes one suspect the Premium’s ability and basic understanding of scope to engage in this endeavor. The proposal claims that it is a closed-loop system, yet it is connecting to the Ashokan Reservoir. The Esopus Creek and other streams connect to the Ashokan Reservoir so in effect this is an open-loop system.  The Department of Energy encourages the use of close-loop systems, but not open-loop systems.  In addition, Premium Energy did not inform the various stakeholders and communities that could be impacted for comment. 

As the largest national preserve closest to New York City, as well as supplying 40% of its drinking water, the amount of protest and concern would be overwhelming. There are also legitimate concerns about how this open-loop system would impact turbidity and water quality for over 9 million residents in New York City.  

Environmentally, the Catskills Forest Preserve created in 1885 in Ulster County and is 700,00 acres of continuous wildlife habitat in an increasing fragmented environment.  The proposed reservoir falls within the Audubon Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area.  As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program”.  According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.”

As it stands, there is strong opposition from all represented parties locally including townships, conservation groups, business owners, as well as an involved and invested residents and visitors.   Phoenicia, which is the largest town in this area,  is one of the most popular tourist attractions in the Catskill Mountains.  Phoenicia is rated as one of the Top Ten Small Towns in America (Budget Travel Magazine). It also has been ranked as the #1 destination outside of NYC.  The amount of people who are moving to or trying to live her full time in the last year is astounding.  The local and regional resistance to taking land from existing home owners or potential homeowners would be a political nightmare and a public relations disaster for Premium.  

Historically, this is an area which was flooded 100 years ago to create the Ashokan Reservoir and displaced 22 townships.  There continues to be historical trauma and outrage in this area which is significant to this day.  Our area is filled with brown signs along our roads declaring Former Site of West Shokan, Olivebridge, Ashokan, and Shokan, as well as towns which no longer exist such as Brown’s Station.   The residents and those who love the Catskills would vehemently oppose this happening again in this area. 

Due to the Catskill Forest being a protected preserve protected by the NY State Constitution, the misleading and inaccuracies of the Premium Energy proposal, the direct threat to NY City drinking water and environmental impact, and strong public opposition, are all key reasons to disqualify Premium Energy Holdings from receiving a preliminary permit.


Project Docket:  P-15056


