

Steve Golden, Olivebridge, NY.
On behalf of Golden Woodlands, LLC, I urge FERC to decline Premium Energy Holding’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. My family has been a landowner in Olivebridge, NY since 1950, and the third generation of our family currently lives on our property.  Golden Woodlands, LLC, the land holding entity for the family is adamantly opposed to the highly destructive proposal submitted to FERC by Premium Energy Holdings.  We will collaborate with others opposing this project until it is defeated, no matter how long it takes.  We have very deep roots in the community and will actively oppose this proposal which will drastically impact the area’s ecology, landscape, economy, and detrimentally impact the NYC water supply.

The Town of Olive is the wrong place for a project of this type.  The community, which still harbors some resentment from its relocation due to the construction of Ashokan Reservoir has contributed substantially to the public welfare of the State and region.  Bound by forever wild lands of NYS Department of Environmental Conservation in the Catskill Forest Preserve, and highly protected lands within the NYC Department of Environmental Protection Watershed, its resource base is already limited and cannot afford to be severed by an additional reservoir and lengthy transmission lands.  

A project of this type should only be located closer to a population center and existing transmission facilities, so as to more efficiently utilize the energy savings created.
It appears that the transmission lines for this proposal will cross property owned by Golden Woodlands.  We guarantee the applicant will have to use eminent domain to acquire any of our holdings and we will fight at each step of the process placing every legal obstacle in the way.  Several of our neighbors have all agreed to make a concerted effort to challenge any access to the property along the route shown on the preliminary map.

We will insist that the applicant submit a full environmental impact statement and analysis of alternatives sites considered.  It is also our understanding that the reservoir sites and transmission lines identified potentially impact species of special concern including both plants and animals and that the US Fish and Wildlife Service needs to thoroughly investigate all potential impacts in the entire watershed.  

The Ashokan Reservoir is a engineering achievement of extraordinary national historic and cultural value and is eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic sites and merits protection of its entire infrastructure including the quarries and roads which were used in its construction.  A detailed historical survey must be completed for planning to proceed.  

Finally, the economy of the southern Catskills will be drastically impacted by a project of this magnitude, and a comprehensive assessment of its economic impact is essential.  It is likely that the negative impact on the region’s value as a world class fishery, its historically notable landscapes painted by the Hudson River School of Painters, and written of by notable early conservationists like John Burroughs, the popular Catskill hiking trails in the area, and extraordinary opportunities on and off-road biking must be accounted for.  It seems likely that far more value will be lost than that created by the pump storage project.

Please stop this project and decline a preliminary permit now rather than create the long-term disruption and cost it will inevitable create with very uncertain outcome.  Simply this is the wrong place for this type of project.  


