

Russell Higgins, Lanesville, NY.
Proposed site is inappropriate for pumped storage and will not efficiently use funds to provide maximum peak storage capacity.

Pumped storage projects usually use ‘cleaned’ / lined reservoirs on vacant land, like Blenheim – Gilboa, to ensure water quality.  Proposed reservoirs would be created in heavily occupied areas including abandoned & lost septic systems, congregate & private dumps, lead & asbestos in most buildings.  Areas are covered in dense forest.  Remediation necessary for removing and disposing of contamination would be very costly.

Pumped storage projects rely on NATRUAL elevation differences, low bermed reservoirs to minimize costs & transport of massive quantities of concrete & reinforcing for high dams with far less requirements for in depth foundations, as well as far less problems with silt, debris, & and other contaminated construction run off. 

Bedrock depth varies up to and over 500 feet in place.  Soil column contains strata’s of artesian springs, voids, quick sands, clays, rock etc. This needs removal, shoring, dewatering to blast foundations into bedrock.  Anything less risks dams failure which would kill thousands living clustered along stream banks & render the Ashokan Reservoir providing water for 10 million, contaminated, useless

Interrupting aquifers that travel along valley bottoms, wells for all buildings down stream are at risk, failure will require yet more property acquisition.

Construction of MASSIVE dams will require MASSIVE amounts of trucked in material over a SINGLE TWO LANE ROAD.  Such loading will beat the highways to rubble & will probably wear out all but the 2 main highway bridges.  HUNDREDS of trucks a day will spew mammoth amounts of pollution to the many buildings close to the roads.  Vibrations will lead to damage to many.

Areas are fully occupied with homes lining roads.  Roads in subject areas are critical access roads to other areas with limited access. Electrical power to subject valleys is from one end only and this project would leave stranded all properties not flooded from both power and access requiring their acquisition also.

Proposed dams are inappropriate for pumped storage projects ESPECIALLY as part of a municipal water supply system for over 10 million people, as they will CERTIANLY lead to extensive construction contamination followed by even more contamination from reservoirs filled with remains of if not actual hundreds of thousands of trees, asphalt highways, drives etc.  Acquisition costs alone will exceed ½ billion dollars unless owners are paid LESS than what they’ll need to buy homes in the area, close to family, friends and jobs. Remediation of constructed environment will cost hundreds of millions including digging up dozens of acres of abandoned dumps along with the soil sewerage and garbage wastes percolated into.  Tens of millions will be needed for the removal of trees and other bio mass and stabilization of the bared forest floors to prevent their quick erosion from creating an ecological disaster.  The project will also need to reimburse NYS tens of millions for repeated road reconstruction and bridge replacements as it’s hundreds of trucks a day destroy them.  The project will need to reimburse tens of millions more to hundreds, thousands of property owners from vibration damage to homes often yards from roads, & to businesses for loss of income from truck, fume, and dust choked roads and hundreds of millions for tourism businesses for permanent reduction of business.

Furthermore, the proposal to site the generation facility in massive caverns deep under ground with miles of associated access, air, and water tunnels up to 50 feet wide, through loose fills saturated with water to solid bedrock will create the most expensive generator building in the US.  As being located and connected to and BELOW the level of the Ashokan Reservoir any failure of dewatering pumps will risk the contamination of the reservoir with tons of lubricants & chemicals needed to maintain generators & building, along with leachate from plastics and chemicals embedded in the generator building itself.  

These issues, along with the work being performed in the most costly construction market in the US, subject to approval by NYS and NYC Building Codes as well as NYS and NYC DEP regulations and approval PLUS Federal Oversight to ensure water quality remains unaffected by the work or operations will be the most expensive hydro power project every attempted in the US and no doubt the most expensive pumped storage project in the world.

For the BILLIONS it would take to realize this projects full potential similar capacity of liquified compressed air off peak storage as is being installed on remote islands could be located nearest power hungry areas, thus saving on transmission system costs and transmission losses.

The application is a virtual cut and paste of prior applications down to facility size, power house location, and the most dubious and vague construction methodologies.

The applicant has also been reported to have made ignorant if not misleading statements, indicating the firm is working at the request of PSEG Long Island to provide peak power for LI.  All transmission lines feeding NYC & LI are maxed out on peak days.  The very time the energy would be most needed, the facility would need to sit idle.  (Ashokan-Plant_Hudson-Valley-One.pdf (shandaken-ny.com))  The applicant also states that as engineer they have no interest in the project, despite 5 million dollar cost of report nearly DOUBLING yearly billing.

The above indicates an inability of applicant to perform to a minimum standard of veracity care and due diligence VITAL in the construction of SIGNIFICANT dams and infrastructure, inability of same to design facility to produce power at economical price to consumers, and inability to care for the water supply of over 10 million people, and should require the immediate rejection of this application.


