

Barbara Prete, Olivebridge, NY.
Barbara Prete

1873 County Road 3

Olivebridge, NY 12461

 

Kimberly D. Bose

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

888 First Street NE, Rm 1A

Washington, D.C. 20426

 

 

April 6, 2021

 

Docket number  P-15056-000

 

Ashokan Proposal to FERC for a Pumped Storage Add-On* Project in the Catskill State 

       Forest Preserve

 

 

Dear Ms. Bose:

 

We all understand the need for electrical power infrastructure, and most of us see the imperative to replace fossil fuels, but must ask At what cost?  The Catskills Park is a critical watershed, a recreation area, and a protected ecological and scenic reserve. Because the proposed pumped storage project will adversely affect this essential watershed and forest preserve, I submit that the cost is too high. Please deny this request by Premium Energy for a preliminary permit.

 

In considering this project, FERC is being asked to bargain with dangerous trade-offs – electricity vs. water safety and security; electricity vs. a vitally important tourism economy.

 

Concerns about Water -

The Ashokan Reservoir System is fed into by the Schoharie Reservoir and Esopus Creek. It is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation. The Ashokan supplies 40% of New York City water to some 19 million people. With this proposed pumped storage project:

-       The turbidity of the Reservoir is likely to increase, impacting the quality of the water

-       Sediment changes in tributaries to the Esopus will alter sediment in the Esopus proper as well as the Ashokan Reservoir because they are all connected; *this is not a closed-loop project

 

Economic Concern -

Catskill Tourism is integral to the New York State economy.

-      Tourism is a $1.6 billion industry supporting ca 20,000 jobs

-      Tourism generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019 (and is

                     growing)

 Earth-moving blastings/construction trucks and noise, will be destructive to habitats, jarring to the peace and beauty of the natural environment, thereby eating away at what makes the Catskills desirable and therefore a place people want to visit, live and work.

 

As residents -- whether new, multi-generational, or part-time with second homes outside of New York City, of all ages, incomes, political persuasions, etc. – we are joining together with our elected officials and civic/environmental organizations to prevent this harmful project. We understand that any changes in our State Forest Preserve must be passed by constitutional amendment voted on by two consecutive sessions of the NY State Legislature, and submitted to the public in a referendum. We stand committed to see this battle through, as long as the legal, legislative and lobbying actions may take, but we hope and pray that FERC will join us now in rejecting project P-15056 at an early stage, before years of great cost, litigation and angst.

 

Thank you for your careful consideration of this urgent matter.

 

Sincerely,



 

 

Cc:

 

Congressman Antonio Delgado

 

Senator Kirsten Gillibrand

 

Senator Charles Schumer

 

Governor Andrew Cuomo

 

New York City DEP Commissioner Vincent Sapienza

 

Ulster County Executive Patrick Ryan

 

New York State DEC Commissioner Basil Seggos

 

Catskill Mountainkeeper Research Director Kathy Nolan

 

Coalition of Watershed Towns

