

Brad Barnes, West Shokan, NY.
To Federal Energy Regulatory Commission                                                               April 6, 2021

Re: Project Docket P-15056

Ashokan Pumped Storage Project Proposal

 

The Town of Olive has a great natural beauty that is breath taking to behold. It is shared by all of us, as our greatest source and asset. It should be respected and treated as such. It must be guarded and protected by all of us. In these times, it is more fragile than ever before. It can be easily attacked and damaged beyond repair. This proposal in itself shows this to be true. It is our duty to pass on this great natural beauty to future generations, untouched and pristine. How could a project of this size and scope even be allowed, for consideration as a proposal, within the boundaries of the forever wild blue line of the Catskill Park? How could high voltage transmission lines be allowed in forever wild? No, this must not come to be!

In many ways this project would be very harmful to the Town of Olive. Although it would only despoil this side of the reservoir, the high voltage transmission lines would be quite visible from both the Ashokan dam and dike parks but also the Ashokan rail trail as well. It would also be visible from many mountain top trails! This would be an awful eyesore and distract from our towns’ best attractions. This must not come to be! Therefore I am vehemently opposed to and against this proposed project! It would be a devastating catastrophe for West Shokan and many other places.

As for me, the high voltage transmission lines would pass within a few hundred feet of my home. I would undoubtedly be forced to move away and leave the area, after 50 plus years. My life and this side of the reservoir as I know it will be over. Then as I move south, what then will my house be worth? Somewhere less than half of its current value? This must not come to be!

The benefits of this project to our town and area are little to none. On the balance sheet this is a big negative for us. It is worth far more for us not to have this damaging project, generating electricity for other remote places. The few permanent jobs this would create are not worth it, do not be fooled!

This project is unnecessary as people all over continue to put up more solar panels. Offshore wind would be closer to where this power is needed, with fewer transmission lines. Offshore wind would not be disruptive or ruin mountain views; it would be more gentle and politically correct for these times. Is there really such a shortage of electric power that this must be built within a very beautiful and protected park? Where it is not wanted by the people? I don’t think so, no, this must not come to be.

It is my sincere hope that every person and party in the Town of Olive and everyone in the affected areas of this project will join me in my opposition. Together with everyone who loves and cares and wants this project this special part of our environment, united in opposition to his very bad idea and unnecessary project. Let us all put a stop to this project now before it gains any traction.

Over 100 years ago, against the will of its citizens, New York City caused West Shokan and much of Olive to be forced out and flooded over. Now is an opportune and crucial time for our good friends at the New York City Department of Environmental Protection to protect their reservoir ( by avoiding unnecessary torpidity), and join together as allies with the Town of Olive in opposition to this unwanted proposal.

Everyone in opposition to this project should think about what we can all do to be a most effective force. We must plan to work together, organize and coordinate. We must all fight this tooth and nail! We must stop this misguided and unnecessary proposal. We must stop this project before it starts, and for good. Remember there is so much at stake. We have so much to lose that once blighted we could never get back!

 

With Broken Heart,

Bradley M.  Barnes

West Shokan, New York

 

Re: Project Docket P-15056

