

Sara Chapman, Astoria, NY.
I am a lifelong resident of New York State, born and raised in Poughkeepsie, NY and currently living in Queens. I grew up camping in the shadows of the Catskills and the Adirondacks, and because of the public health crisis, I was fortunate enough to spend a significant period of time in the Catskills enjoying the great outdoors and spending much needed money in the local economy at small businesses and in the hospitality industry, which has suffered greatly due to the pandemic. I write today to express my dismay and opposition to the proposed Ashokan dam, docket P-15056. This plan, submitted by a west coast energy company, threatens the local economy and ecosystem of the Catskills. It will obstruct views, damage hiking trails, force road closures to valuable recreational areas and impact NYC’s drinking water. Historically, the Catskills was a summertime retreat for NYC residents back when people used the word “summer” as a verb. Over the years, as air travel became more popular and affordable, the Catskills fell out of favor and communities became blighted. That began to change recently, and with the influx of New Yorkers seeking a natural respite to their quarantined lives, communities are beginning to thrive again. This plan would erase that progress by discouraging continued tourism after the pandemic and threatening ski resorts. This plan, submitted with NO input from local regulators or stakeholders, will relegate burgeoning towns back to poverty and squalor. It will force naturalists into other areas like the Poconos and the Berkshires, pumping money into the economies of neighboring states instead of New York while profits from the project are enjoyed in California. The project will have negative environmental consequences as well. It will invite invasive species and interrupt fish breeding grounds. It will require clearing out sensitive vegetation. These are negative impacts that have long-term consequences on the environment. The positive impacts of this proposal are largely going to people in California while New Yorkers are left with an industrial plant ruining a nature preserve so important to our state that it was written into our constitution. New York has suffered greatly as a result of the pandemic. Many people left New York and will not return. The long-term impact of the pandemic is that people will be able to live anywhere they chose because they’re not tied to physical offices. Employment opportunities will no longer suffice to attract people to live in New York, and our tax base will shrink as a result. So will our numerical power in future censuses. If we want to keep New Yorkers in the state and continue to entice residents to spend locally, we must maintain local resources and recreation areas. I urge you to deny this project and preserve America’s First Forest for generations to come.

