

John O'Connell, Phoenicia, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street
Washington DC 20426

Docket P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose

I am John O'Connell. I have lived at 945 Woodland Valley Road, Phoenicia since July, 1977.

I am writing to you to urge you to reject the deeply flawed proposal submitted by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York's Catskill Mountains.

First, may I quote Victor Rojas, the President of Premium Energy, whose firm has submitted this flawed proposal

"The Ashokan project will be built only with the cooperation of the community. We don’t want to harm or damage nothing or no one. It looks like the first choice of upper reservoir was a bad choice. There is a community in that location. This site alternative therefore will not be any longer pursue it." 

"Also, since this reservoir belongs to the city of New York, if the city of New York deems this project not safe for the integrity of the water supply to the City, this project will not happen. Nothing will be done without the consensus of all stakeholders."

As of this moment there has been no communication with stakeholders. NONE

Technically I urge that the project must be rejected because

1. The proposed site is on designated Status 1 land, and federal policy explicitly directs that Status 1 and 2 land areas are highly protected and must be avoided for development. This proposal would demand a Constitutional Amendment passed by the NYS Legislature and signed by the Governor. This barrier alone is sufficient to stop the proposal, in its tracks, at this very moment.

2.The proposed project will severely disrupt and increase turbidity in the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding streams, which serve as a primary source of unfiltered drinking water for 9 million New York residents.

3. The flawed application misrepresents its project as a “closed loop” design. In truth, it is an “add-on” design with worse environmental impacts.

4.The project raises numerous legal issues regarding States’ rights and land reservation.

5. The proposed site is home to protected species of wildlife and flora/fauna, as well as historical and cultural artifacts and sites.

We are keenly aware that officials charged with reviewing proposals consider the NIMBY issues raised by going forward. In reply I would note that this project has a highly negative impact not only on the people, wildlife and organizations in Catskill region, but also the 9 million residents of New York City. The Ashokan reservoir is the source of 40% of NYC drinking into water.

Additionally, comments from Premium Energy's Leadership, noted above, demonstrate that the Company, itself, has seriously erred in their proposal development by presenting a plan that even they admit is faulty.  

We clearly recognize the need for our nation and world to transition to green-energy sources. However, it is clear that this proposed effort is not a green-energy effort. It will destroy important wilderness areas, negatively affect wildlife, contaminate local wells and septic systems, negatively impact the drinking water of 9 million New Yorkers.

I urge you, as a responsible public official, to reject the  Premium Energy Proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.    

John T. O'Connell

