

Elizabeth Ibarra, Palenville, NY.
I am writing in regards to the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project - I am STRONGLY AGAINST this project taking place in any of the three proposed locations. 

As a resident of Palenville, I know that the Catskills are a small mountain range, and there is limited access to the mountaintop. Any dam built, specifically the dam proposal along Route 214, would funnel traffic and human impact onto roads that are already over capacity, drastically inhibiting tourism, which is the biggest industry we rely on in the region. Our infrastructure can not handle any more traffic -  our rivers are clogged with trash, the vehicle traffic is insane, and human impact is severe and needs to be mitigated.

In addition, the NYState constitution clarifies the preservation of the Catskills to be untouched and left as wilderness. In a dissipating “wild” landscape, this is of utmost primary concern. The resources that the Catskills have to offer exceed just tourism, but also provide a sanctuary to the LIMITED natural resources of water, fresh air, and animal life that we all depend on as humans. To impose a dam which would DRASTICALLY change the landscape of a space that is CRITICAL to preserve would be an irreversible and tragic error. It would affect not only the natural ecosystems, but the water supply directly tied to *8.3 million people in New York City*. I don’t think anyone needs to deal with a problem that large on their hands.

Please DENY the permits that would only benefit a for-profit company that does not even operate from within New York State, but from across the country in California. New York’s Catskill Mountains is not a place for extraction of resources, but a delicate mountain range that needs to be left as it is to preserve and honor the current laws in place as well as the protection of the natural landscape and it’s limited resources.

The dam should NOT be built in an environment as fragile as the Catskill Mountains.

Elizabeth Ibarra

