

Willa McClellan Koerner, West Shokan, NY.
Willa Koerner
304 Moon Haw Road
West Shokan, NY 12494

Dear Kimberly D. Bose/FERC,

I am writing to state my resounding opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

In 2018, my husband and I moved from NYC to West Shokan to establish a new home for ourselves in the woods, as well as to create a DIY retreat space for future-focused creative practitioners where they could come to recharge in the beautiful, restorative Catskills. Our mission is to support regenerative work that centers the environment, and aims to bring about a greener, more equitable and more sustainable future. At this point, we’ve now hosted over 150 artists, engineers, journalists, social entrepreneurs, organizers, scientists, and others at our home—which is a beautiful space surrounded by the “forever-wild” Catskill Forest Preserve, a spring-fed pond, Wittenberg Brook, and Friday and Wittenberg Mountains.

Premium Energy’s proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would put a swift end to our work, as it would likely wipe our home and retreat space off the face of the earth—razing the forests we love, killing off many of the animals who call these forests home, and flooding this historic land, which was referred to by visitors of the 1900s as the “Eden of the Catskills.” 

While I would do almost anything to save our home, this is more than just a NIMBY plea. It is unimaginable to me to think that we could abandon our legally protected forests just because an opportunistic CA-based company sees these mountains and these waters as a cash cow. I assume FERC is smart enough to see this proposal for what it is—a plain-and-simple bad idea, with even worse execution—but of course I worry that the proposal will be taken seriously, despite its many flaws.

To me this project proposal screams, “Green energy, but at what cost?” Moving our state and country to renewable energy sources is a noble and worthy pursuit, for sure—but it shouldn’t be a game of addition by subtraction, where protected forests (also incredibly important for our green, eco-conscious future!) are sacrificed. We cannot justify that kind of irreversible devastation, at least not before other alternatives are fully investigated and pursued. Destroying any kind of protected land, and displacing communities—the very same communities that were devastated by the Ashokan Reservoir construction 120 years ago—should be an absolute last resort. Truly, we are not that desperate yet, and we have time to find better alternatives.

I believe in a future where green energy is abundant, and hydropower energy-storage solutions can be thoughtfully planned at sites that enrich and benefit their communities. Here, such a project would do nothing of the sort, and would instead be an abhorrent abomination, smashing through our community and this uniquely preserved land like a wrecking ball on fire. Nobody is asking for this, and it doesn’t even represent the kind of innovation needed for NYS to move to 70% renewables by 2030. The proposal is shoddy at best, strewn with false information to the point where it appears that whoever crafted it took a whack-a-mole approach, without doing due diligence to understand the actual landscape of the Ashokan watershed, or its highly preserved and protected status.

Best case, this project could be constructed with minimal damage to protected forests, and minimal sacrifice from our community. Even if this were the case, it still has major flaws that would continue to pose a threat far into the future. Perhaps the biggest of these threats is the risk it poses to the Ashokan Reservoir itself, and NYC’s unfiltered water supply, 40% of which comes from our watershed every day. As climate change continues to affect our weather patterns, who knows how the impending droughts and floods will affect the delicately balanced Ashokan. It would be downright careless to bring another vector of uncertainty into the equation, and using it as the lower reservoir for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would undoubtedly do just that, as the water supply becomes more and more unpredictable, murky, and turbid. We need to protect the valuable assets and resources we have, not needlessly endanger them with ill-conceived development.

At this early point in the process, I have already spent many hours working with the newly formed Coalition to Save Catskills Preserve—a hundreds-strong group of neighbors and organizations taking action against this horrid project. We are extremely aware of the flaws with Premium Energy’s proposal, we are organized, and we will be watching FERC’s process with eagle eyes, ready to pounce and fight to protect these lands, their wild inhabitants, and the homes of our families, neighbors, and friends. 

Now is the time to stop this proposal, before it’s allowed to wreak further havoc on our community, which has been thrown into an absolute furor over the mere idea of such a poorly thought-through project desecrating our beloved Catskills. Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Thanks for your time.

Sincerely,
Willa Koerner


