

Collin LaFleche, West Shokan, NY.
Hello,

My name is Collin LaFleche. I live in West Shokan NY, on the southern side of the Ashokan Reservoir. My partner and I are here returning the property into a working organic farm, growing vegetables and fruit. Our property would likely be impacted by the infrastructure required for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, and so I wanted to submit a comment regarding the proposal.

I am certainly not an engineer, but I am a project manager, and the proposal on its face is incomplete, sloppy, does not approach the overall goals at hand — renewable energy storage — from a thoughtful standpoint, and in the way that the Department of Energy has stated it wants. Specifically, this would be an open-loop project, not a closed-loop project as the DOE has requested. The proposal states this is a closed-loop project, but this is incorrect, as the Ashokan has an outflow on its southeast end.

Secondly, there are likely to be significant legal challenges facing this proposal and project. The state is almost certainly going to object on various grounds. Significantly, any changes to land management for the state forest preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, ratified by public referendum. Through 1999, 2000 or more amendments were proposed, with only 20 passing.

Most importantly, the project would have detrimental impacts on the land and stream ecologies in the areas surrounding the Ashokan Reservoir, ecologies which are highly preserved. The lands of the Catskill Forest Preserve are protected by the state constitution and may not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any public or private corporation. The forest surrounding the proposed sites is, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index, among the top 1% of forest habitats in the region. All of the proposed reservoirs are within the Audubon Society’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area. Finally, the Catskills are categorized as status 1 land as part of the USGS “Gap Analysis Program,” which means that it should be “avoided for development.” 

Premium Energy appears to be unaware that the project would encounter the above challenges, speaking further to the unseriousness of their proposal.

I urge you to reject Premium Energy’s proposal on the grounds that it is incomplete, inaccurate, and poorly assembled.

Thanks very much for your time,

Collin LaFleche

