

Katherine C Jueds, Shokan, NY.
Katherine Jueds
18 Mountain Road
Shokan, NY 12481

To: Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. This proposal is profoundly problematic and I urge FERC to decline Premium Energy’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. The project, if completed, would negatively impact tourism, local communities, the area’s environment, and New York City’s drinking water.

Firstly, the project would be deeply damaging to local communities in the Catskills. Completion of the project would require the seizure of homes and private property via eminent domain, and displaced residents would likely have a challenging time finding affordable housing in the area. Ulster County is experiencing a severe housing shortage and the properties that are available are extremely expensive. Furthermore, many in the area are already struggling with loss of income due to the pandemic.

In addition to the potential problem of displacement the project would create, it is also important to consider the project’s deleterious effect on tourism in the Catskills. In 2019, tourism generated 17% of the employment in the region; it is a $1.6 billion industry which supports approximately 20,000 jobs. The Catskill region is justly celebrated as a haven for hikers, fishermen, and skiers. Premium Energy’s project would cut off access to these and other forms of recreation. Furthermore, the project would irreparably damage the area’s natural beauty. With a decrease in tourism, businesses and workers in Ulster County would suffer. 

Premium Energy’s project would also cause lasting harm to the environment. Large, unbroken areas of wildlife habitat are, sadly, now rare in our country: the Catskill Forest Preserve comprises almost 700,000 acres of contiguous habitat, and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats in the region, per the New York State Forest Condition Index. In addition, Catskill Forest Preserve lands, under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, are clearly designated as “forever. . .  wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold, or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Please do not allow this very special place to be altered beyond repair by Premium Energy.

Finally, Premium Energy’s project is an immediate and serious threat to New York City’s drinking water. The project would make use of the already-existing Ashokan Reservoir, which serves the city and which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, providing 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. In the 1990s alone, $1.7 billion was invested in the reservoir. It would be foolish and dangerous to endanger this essential resource in the ways that Premium Energy’s project would do. Their proposed pumped storage plant would adversely affect the sediment regime in tributary rivers and streams that feed the reservoir—ultimately harming not only the fish and wildlife that depend on them but also the many, many New York City residents who do as well.

I want to be clear that I am in favor of renewable energy, and that I hope it will play a large part in our transition away from fossil fuels and toward more sustainable sources. However, we cannot sacrifice community and environmental well-being in pursuit of this goal, and the Premium Energy project would do just that. Though Premium Energy claims their project is a “closed loop,” a type of pumped storage project that would have a smaller impact on the surrounding ecosystem, this is false: the project is in fact an “add on” since it would use an existing body of water, the Ashokan, as a lower reservoir. In putting the project forward as a “closed loop,” Premium Energy has already lied to us. How can we trust them to maintain high standards and care for the community if they have based their proposal on an enormous falsehood?

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Katherine Jueds



