

Wendy Wolfenson, West Shokan, NY.
Premium Energy’s Ashokan Reservoir Pumped Storage Project

Docket: P-15056

I respectfully request that Premium Energy’s permit application for the above project be denied.
  
There are major factual errors and omissions in Premium’s current application:

1)	In its initial application, Premium incorrectly states, “The lands enclosed within the proposed project boundary are New York State Lands.”  This is simply wrong.  The proposed Wittenberg reservoir is also sited on private residential property.  Premium acknowledges immediately after that “The project layout study boundary…encompasses both federal and private lands.”  There are no federal lands here. By misrepresenting the location of the upper reservoir, which is on numerous parcels of private land as well as State land, Premium hides that taking parcels of private land by Eminent Domain and devaluing numerous residential properties downstream, will be integral to the project.

2)	Premium fails to disclose in its maps or descriptions that the path it has selected for miles of high-voltage, high-tension wires would also be on private property .  This would also involve taking residential property and/or New York City watershed property through Eminent Domain.

3)	Premium wrongly characterizes the project as a Closed Loop project.  This is completely incorrect.  This is an add-on Open Loop project.  The U.S. Department of Energy defines the difference: “PSH capabilities can be characterized as open loop-where there is an ongoing hydrologic connection to a natural body of water-or closed loop, where the reservoirs are not connected to an outside body of water.” (www.energy.gov/eere/water/pumped-storage-hydropower).  This project involves the Esopus Creek, Maltby Hollow Brook and Ashokan Reservoir, all of which are comprised of running water at both ends. Premium’s project fails to qualify as a Closed Loop under any circumstances.  It is evident that Premium has deliberately mischaracterized the project in an attempt to secure expedited processing and to skirt the standard review process.  FERC has sometimes ruled that the distinction between Open and Closed Loop is not grounds for rejection at this stage in the process. In this case, however, the factual error affects the drinking water of 9 million people.  This mistake should be corrected before the applicant can proceed. Furthermore, Premium Energy should not be allowed any expedited permitting or licensing.

4)	Premium failed to notify several relevant municipalities that are clearly impacted by this project.  There was no notification to the Town of Hunter or to Greene County.  There was no identification or notification to the Towns of Marbletown or Hurley (where the high-voltage wires would be built).  These towns have populations of more than 5,000 people.  In its deficiency letter, FERC points out that “the Commission’s regulations require the applicant to identify every city, town, or similar local political subdivision which has a population of 5,000 or more people.”  It is up to Premium Energy, not the responsibility of FERC, to correctly identify and inform these political entities.  The current application is incomplete. Relevant municipalities have not been properly notified.  To say that these municipalities know now, by word-of-mouth, is an inadequate response.

5)	  Premium wrongly identifies the affected body of water on the first page of its executive summary.  Premium lists the “Bush Kill Creek,” in addition to the Ashokan Reservoir.  The actual affected body of water is the “Maltby Hollow Brook.”  Premium does not use the correct name until page 11 of its application.  The difference here is substantial.  The mouth of the Maltby Hollow flows into the Bush Kill.  It is the Maltby Hollow that will be “impounded.”  While it is not wrong to include the Bush Kill, it is incorrect to omit Maltby Hollow Brook.  This is akin to proposing a project in Pittsburgh that would impound the Ohio River, but listing the Mississippi River as the only affected waterway.

6)	Premium Energy failed to adequately answer FERC’s deficiency comment about emergency spillways.   FERC correctly noted that Premium “does not mention any emergency spillways for the upper reservoir. If applicable, please provide dimensions and the general configuration for any emergency spillways.”  All Premium did in its amendment was say there would be a “concrete spillway” without providing any details.  This is an insufficient response. The Wittenberg reservoir is in an area that is so prone to flooding that flood insurance is required as a condition of receiving a mortgage.  Before approval of the permit, Premium Energy needs to specify, at a minimum, the details and dimensions of the spillway, as required in FERC’s letter of deficiencies.  This is especially important because there are many people who live immediately downstream from the dam.

7)	In its deficiency letter, FERC notes that “the scale of (your) maps is not sufficient to show clearly and legibly all of the information. Please revise and submit the maps enlarged to a scale that is adequate for that purpose.”  Premium Energy has again failed to provide legible maps in its resubmission.  All they did was to blow up fuzzy maps that continue to obscure the names of towns, roads and other relevant site information.

Due to the numerous factual errors in its original and amended applications and failure to correct the deficiencies already noted by FERC in its initial response on December 29, 2020, the application of Premium Energy should be denied.  At the very least, Premium Energy should be compelled to resubmit their application, correcting all of the deficiencies. Premium Energy should not, under any circumstances, be allowed to proceed to the next phase based on its amended application dated January 29, 2021.  Moreover, if Premium Energy is given permission to proceed, they should not be allowed any expedited processing.

Wendy Wolfenson 4/6/21

