

Jasmine Jordaan, West Shokan, NY.
Dear FERC Representative,

 

I am writing in my capacity as a concerned property owner in one of the potential dam sites as well as an attorney who has worked for several years for the New York City Department of Environmental Protection working on protecting the watershed through their land acquisition program. The first point that jumps out at me is the huge turbidity threat that this project poses to the New York City drinking water which Services more than 9 million people. Although I see the benefits of hydroelectric power, it is not feasible in our location due to the interests of New York City and the implications of this project interfering with the Environmental Protection Agency's Grant of consent for the NYC Filtration Avoidance Program. So not only is there a City issue here there is an interference with a federal agency's consent. Granting this permit will result in years of litigation with New York City as well as several federal agencies and state agencies. Aside from this monumental hurdle to this project there is several other huge implications such as the fact that the Catskill Park is one of the only national areas with more than 700,000 acres in continuous protection by the state as well as the city (due to the land acquisition program). This protection has been in effect for over 100 years and has resulted in animal and stream habitats that would be directly affected by this project. This project appears to not only create a huge dam but also to require high voltage electric lines to be put in place through protected lands. This is yet one more issue with this project. Also, in reviewing the application there are several misrepresentations a glaring one being that the company is describing this as a closed loop system which is not correct. Ashokan reservoir has the Esopus running into it which clearly is not a closed loop system. From participating in several meetings concerning this project it appears that there is tremendous opposition to this and I hope that you take all these comments into consideration and not Grant this initial permit which will save many hours of taxpayers money since this will trigger tremendous amount of litigation. I'm surprised that this California company has made an application which takes on the entire New York City water supply system. Thank you for your attention to this, Jasmine Jordaan

