

Chase Kruppo, Fleischmanns, NY.
There is no doubt the kind of pumped storage energy systems like that proposed in this application have value in advancing the expansion of renewable energy in the region. 

The issue is that this is not the place in which to site a project that has legal and environmental implications that span local, county, city, and state governments. The most glaring oversight is that this project inevitably disturbs over 100 years of sediment since the Ashokan reservoir was built in 1915.

The construction is one phase of development that impacts water quality in the reservoir. The continuous daily pumping and discharge of water between any new upper holding reservoir and the Ashokan assures that turbidity is permanently elevated in one of the most sensitive trout fisheries in the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Not least of all, affecting drinking water quality for the 9 million customers in New York City, as 40% of its unfiltered drinking water passes through the Ashokan reservoir. The City of New York does not have the capital to construct a filtration system, having for decades relied on the undisturbed nature of the Catskills region to provide that water. It is the largest unfiltered water system in the world.

I write my comment as a farmer and agritourism operator just west of the proposed site. In recent years major bridge construction along the Route 28 corridor served as an impediment to tourists accessing the interior of the Catskill mountains. When guests visit from afar, the last thing they want is to sit in traffic or take long detours to reach their destination for a weekend or holiday trip. The construction of a new dam and proposed infrastructure inevitably places a burden on the local tourist economies. The damage to local tourist economies isn't off-set in the long-run by the temporary construction jobs that are created.

Lastly, this is not a closed-loop project. It's an add-on project. The Esopus River flows into and out of the Ashokan Reservoir before meeting the Hudson River. This project directly interacts with a unfiltered public water source. As it is within a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are designated Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” The Dept of Energy's own materials on hydropower indicate that development of Status 1 or 2 lands should be avoided.

Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by
constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state
legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.

This is the right project in the wrong place. It's not a simple not-in-my-backyard situation, it seems as if this permit proposal was submitted without any contextual understanding of what water source Premium Energy Holdings wants to use or the land that will be required to implement the project.

Please deny the application for this project.



