

Ben DeRosa, Chichester, NY.
FERC Project and Sub-docket Number: P-15056:000 

To Whom It May Concern,

I am a resident of Chichester, NY (Ulster County), and I am writing against the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy Holdings – their proposal is both misleading and deficient.

I am a citizen who cares deeply about reducing our country’s reliance on fossil fuels. I believe we ought to transition to renewable energy, and there are many good things to be said for hydropower. However, the Catskills area is not the right place for this kind of project. The damage that would be done to state preserved forest land, waterways, and wildlife is immeasurable.

Importantly, Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal is misleading and deficient: While the company says it won’t touch the Catskills Forest Preserve, its actual plan locates the project right in the heart of the Catskills Preserve, which is 700,000 acres of land protected by Article XIV of the New York State Constitution. The Article states these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” If the company wants to change the land management of the State Forest Preserve, a constitutional amendment is required, one that is voted on twice by the NY state legislature and submitted to the public in a referendum. 

In a hydropower project, the fluctuations of pumped water would increase the turbidity of the New York City water supply (the Catskills water supply provides 40% of New York City’s drinking water). Perhaps more importantly, it would wreak havoc on land and aquatic habitats. All of the natural streams that would be affected are vital trout waters, and important trout spawning grounds would be destroyed.

The Catskills Forest Preserve is 700,000 contiguous acres of wildlife habitat. Premium Energy’s proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area and on land that is home to many protected species: 

•	“threatened species” such as the northern long-eared bat; 
•	“species of greatest conservation need” such as the black-throated blue warbler, scarlet tanager, and wood thrush; 
•	“species of special concern” such as Cooper’s hawk, red-shouldered hawk, sharp-shinned hawk, Eastern hognose snake, and timber rattlesnake. 

Premium Energy Holdings’ proposal is also misleading in that it is described as a closed-loop system when it is clearly presented as an open-loop design.  Both the Stony Clove and Woodland Valley upper reservoir designs involve and affect the free-flowing Stony Clove and Woodland Valley Creeks.  I live on the Stony Clove and know that, since 1995, the Stony Clove has received funding from the NYC DEP Stream Management Program, the US Army Corps of Engineers under the Watershed Environmental Assistance Program, and NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (http://www.catskillstreams.org/stonyclovesmp.html).  This significant investment in time, money, and resources has greatly improved turbidity / water quality and and the health of the Creek’s ecology.

The damage that this proposed project would inflict on the ecology of state protected land is immense and unimaginable. I urge you to protect our natural resources and deny Premium Energy Holdings a preliminary permit.

Sincerely,

Ben DeRosa
111 Stony Clove Lane
Chichester, NY 12416


