

Abigail Muro, Durham, CT.
The following is written by a 10-year-old adversary to the pumped hydro project proposal.

The scent of trees drifts through the air. The Esopus Stream is making its way through the rocks. In my opinion the dam should not be built that will drown Woodland Valley and flood this stream. The dam should not be built because it is home to many plants and animals, people live there, the water won’t be the prettiest, there is a lot of history, and it uses more energy than it creates.         

First off, Woodland Valley is home to many plants and animals. Their homes would be destroyed and they would most likely die. Most of Woodland Valley's natural beauties are because of them. This makes Woodland Valley the perfect destination for wildlife lovers. As you can see Woodland Valley is home to many plants and animals.

My second reason is that people live there. They would have to move out of their houses not because they wanted to. There is even a whole colony that has made many traditions specific to that piece of land. Also would you like to have someone tell you you have to move out of your house and go somewhere else? To sum it up people live there and you would be wrecking their homes and properties.

Third, the water isn’t the prettiest. It isn’t the blue waters of Hawaii. The mountains are the Valley’s prettiest aspect. Sure water is fun but why bring more of it to a perfectly fine creek. To conclude the water isn’t the prettiest. 

Lastly, it is going to use more energy than it creates. First, it is just a silly idea if you have to drown places just to take energy and produce less than you took. Secondly, energy is not a toy, you are supposed to treasure it and not use it irresponsibly. Also, there are other environmental friendly options to produce energy that don’t involve a dam and water. In conclusion this way of making electricity is a bad idea because it is going to use more energy than it is going to create.

As you can see the dam should not be built. Not only is Woodland Valley home to many examples of wildlife, but there are many people who call it home, the water won’t be the prettiest, there is a lot of history, and it is going to use more energy than it creates. So call the building of the dam off and save the valley.


