We are members of the Chichester Property Owners Association, a
community organization of three dozen households located in the hamlet
of Chichester, Town of Shandaken, Ulster County, in New York State. Our
FERC ID is #F648342.

We are opposed to the granting of a preliminary permit to Premium Energy
Holdings (PEH) for the project to build a pumped storage hydroelectric
plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir (docket number P-15056).

We believe PEH’s proposal is filled with erroneous and misleading
information, and oppose it for the following reasons:

1.  The entire proposed project lies within the Catskill Forest
      Preserve, which has been protected in section 2.1 of the New York
      State Constitution since 1894.

2.  Key players were not notified beforehand, as legally required,
      including:

    a.  New York City

    b.  The hamlets of Lanesville, Chichester, Phoenicia, Mt. Tremper

    c.  Towns of Shandaken, Olive and Hunter

    d.  Ulster and Greene counties

    e.  Hunter Mountain Ski Resort, and its parent company Vail Resorts

3.  Local and vacationer traffic on New York State Route 214, connecting
      Hunter Mountain, and the hamlets of Tannersville and Hunter to all
      points south, would be severely disrupted, wreaking economic havoc
      on the affected hamlets, towns, and counties.

4.  Replacing New York State Route 214 will prove impractical, if not
      impossible, given the topography of the land.

5.  New York City’s Department of Environmental Protection operates the
      city’s drinking water supply under a Filtration Avoidance
      Determination (FAD) issued by the US Environmental Protection
      Administration.

6.  As proposed, PEH’s project is not a closed loop system

7.  With so much private property located within close proximity to the
      Stony Clove creek, and surrounded by the Catskill Forest Preserve,
      relocation of homes and businesses along the creek is impossible
      without amendment of the New York State Constitution.

We urge the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to deny Premium Energy
Holdings the permit.

My name is Salomon Weir. I am president of the Chichester Property
Owners Association,
