

Krishna Fitzpatrick, West Shokan, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose, Secretary
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Room 1A
Washington, DC 20426

March 30, 2021

Dear Ms. Bose,

This letter is concerning docket #P-15056-000.

I am writing to express my support for renewable energy, but my opposition to this plan in particular. Premium Energy (PE) has clearly given little to no consideration to the area that they are proposing to build this hydropower dam. 

There are a number of flaws in PE’s proposal. The first being that PE is calling the Ashokan Pumped Storage plan a “closed-loop” system. This is blatantly false. The proposed upper reservoir would rely on the lower reservoir (the current Ashokan reservoir) as a water source. This makes the plan patently an “open-loop” plan.

Number two. The Ashokan reservoir, which PE’s proposed plan will rely heavily on, is an integral and majority resource in NYC’s water supply. The Ashokan provides around 40% of the water supply to New York City’s over 9 million residents. Allowing PE’s plan to go forward would mean increased turbidity and sediment to the Ashokan, not to mention possible risk to overall supply. As climate change continues to affect our world, it’s impossible to know whether the levels of the Ashokan will remain stable in the coming years. 

Thirdly, tt seems with willful ignorance, that Premium Energy has chosen one of this region’s largest continuous wildlife preserves, under the protection of the New York Constitution, as the locale for a hydroplant designed to supply backup power.The sites in question are home to numerous under-threat and endangered species, including the:

	•	Cooper’s hawk
	•	Red-shouldered hawk
	•	Sharp-shinned hawk
	•	Eastern hognose snake
	•	Timber rattlesnake


Premium Energy’s proposal claims the hydroplant would generate 2,800 mega watts of power, but would require 2,000 mw of that power just to operate the plant itself. This equation does not make a strong case for the sacrifice of hundreds of acres of protected wildlife habitat to be wiped out.

I thank you in advance for considering the above points. Again, renewable energy is an important part of our future, and one that I value. However, this plan from Premium Energy is not sound, and should not be allowed to move forward.


Sincerely,

Krishna Fitzpatrick
137 Whispell Road
West Shokan, NY 
12494


