

Virginia Workstus, Olivebridge, NY.
Virginia Workstus
47 Tongorekill Rd.
Olivebridge, NY 12461

Re: FERC project proposal by Premium Energy Holdings 
subdocket # P-15056-000


I have lived full time in Olivebridge, NY for the past 20 years. I want to share my opinion to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a large dam, reservoir, turbine and tunnels for use in pumped storage and generation of electricity. I oppose this proposed project.

This proposed project is intrusive and will negatively impact the ecology of the Catskill Forrest Preserve, which is protected by the New York State Constitution.  This project is likely to uproot area residents, damage or relocate local roads, damage local lands and streams and cause increased turbidity in waters which are a part of the watershed serving New York City’s unfiltered drinking water system.

This project will be a net consumer of energy, meaning that cheap power will be spent to make more expensive power.  This is short sighted and does not support responsible development of green energy production, which I do support. 

The Ashokan watershed has endured and continues to endure environmental stress.  The local ecosystem faces ongoing challenges to its health.  Pumped storage systems such as the one proposed creates rapid water level fluctuations of the upper reservoir.  These “wreak havoc on ecologically rich areas where terrestrial and fresh water ecosystems overlap.”  

I understand that infrastructure projects like this one often involves trade-offs between the negative impacts and positive good.  The Catskill Preserve and surrounding wilderness areas support the local economies of area towns and individuals.  The current New York City reservoir system sacrificed 33 towns, displacing thousands of residents.  Many area communities such as Olivebridge continue to struggle to survive and depend on tourist dollars.  This proposed project will stress already stressed communities.

This area is not the best suited place to build this proposed system.  Please work to prevent this proposal from moving forward.  Thank you.


Source: Electric Power Research Institute: “Quantifying the Value of Hydropower in the Electric Grid”; Yale 360: “For Storing Electricity, Utilities are turning to Pumped Storage”; DoE HVR



