

Michelle Spark, phoenicia, NY.
P-15056-000DOCKET (NUMBER would not come up.) Proposed Hydro electric power Plant abutting Ashokan Reservoir:
Comment is made by a Catskill resident of 30 years, whose home abuts the confluence of Esopus Creek at the Woodland Valley Stream.  I have witnessed major disruptions on the creek many times during high flow events, which include scouring of stream banks, erosion to home and property, and damage to local roads and bridges.  We all have deep respect for the power of water in a storm event. These streams and valleys have taken water flows for thousands of years, and as such have evolved to a high degree of inter-related dependency. Any major change to these streams will have impacts that cannot be estimated and are not worth the risk to the delicate eco-balance that Catskill and NYS residents have determined to preserve by state law over 100 years ago.
Several points about the plan occur to me: It doesn’t look like a “closed” loop plan but looks to be an “open” loop plan, so I am suggesting that be correctly identified to get the correct name in place. I wonder why there was such a major mis- approbation ?
That being said, in regards to putting a reservoir in the Woodland Valley end, or anywhere located in this watershed region,  I have witnessed the deep micro-environmental interdependence of rain, streams, flooding, habitat with animal and human.  These dependencies have evolved in a protective way ever since the Catskill State Forest Preserve was designated protected “wild” by the NYS laws.  To change that would require a citizen amendment, and most would not agree to that- as all who come here place great value on the size of this precious forest, and nature of this protection.
The nature of rain fall, on deep valley streams made of glacial clay is one of delicate balance. 
The continuity and amount of water that empties into the Esopus, cannot be discounted, and are home and habitat to mallards, salamanders, mink, and turtle and frogs.  These creatures are the pillars of the forest floor and need protection from disrupted surfaces of ther ground in the forest. Massive rain fall runs quickly off the steep sides as creeks rise fast and furious.  Just as quickly going down.  a large area unforested such as a reservoir could disrupt the cloud eco-system and rain fall we are so dependent on.

The amount of disruption will cause more erosion on stream banks, disturbance to habitat for animals, and trout, and threaten human structures of homes, roads and bridges.  Turbidity in the water occurs any time water levels exceed the norm, and therefore impact 9 million in NYC.  Water quality is also of import to local residents who depend on clean water to drink.  Turbidity is of a great concern and is easily stirred up.
I believe this proposed project will have enormous impact on the above relationships causing major change in the balancing of the eco systems involved. 

Cycles of seasons have their own specific times of threat- snow melt, spring run off, dry conditions, and drought.  All these situations cause flooding, fire risk, depletion of food sources for animals and birds, and threat to the stream ecology.  Any large intrusion such as a new reservoir put in the basin between two major mountains and an underground channel will bring about unwanted change such as:
species dislocation, fragmenting of forest canopy thus making it difficult for some bird species to thrive such as wood thrush scarlet tanager.  NYS Audubon designated the Catskills as a mature quality forest, and any fragmentation would destroy that.
Possible opportunities for invasive species to come in could occur with a large reservoir or channel tunneling. This proposed project would invite breaking up one of the most highly preserved un- interrupted forest preserves in NYS and on the Eastern coast.

Eco tourism via outdoor natural recreation like hiking, fishing, and camping has contributed to the local economy. The grand scale of this project is beyond the intimate nature of this economy and will have a negative impact on the local permanent residential economy. When residents need to turn to destruction for economic survival due to loss of tourism, that could be consider a causal effect of such a proposal such as this one. Iurge the complete review of this project especially concerning water quality, fish and bird habitat, and weconomic impacts.
Thank you,
Michelle Spark 






