

Nathan Walker, Phoenicia, NY.
To my dear fellow human beings,

My family has been blessed with a humble home on Woodland Valley Stream for over 50 years.

Woodland Valley is a very special place, with irreplaceable value in the ecosystem, the history, and the ongoing community of the entire Hudson Valley.  Its beauty and value cannot be overstated.

We invite any associates of the PSP Ashokan Pumped Storage Project to come visit and stay with us, so that we may offer you a view of the magic that Woodland Valley offers to those who can respect it.

We open our home to you, in the hope that you will open your heart to Woodland Valley Stream.

In the time we have lived there, we have witnessed an ongoing natural reclamation of a vast ecosystem, hosting myriad stories of life and regeneration.  

This area has been torn apart again and again by human development over the last few centuries, and it deserves the chance to have time to grow back into what it could be again, without the threat of yet another usurious human endeavor poisoning and pillaging its resources.

We locals have seen the way the river naturally flushes itself on an irregular and unpredictable basis, and the unquestionable value of flooding.  Any reservoir at this elevation would most likely be a fool’s undertaking.  We have watched bridges and homes get washed away in the various moods of the stream, and we have learned to respect the power of the water’s choices in its flow.

The stream’s flooding is a phenomenon of nature, and therefore something intrinsically vital to the health of the whole area’s ecosystem.  

To install an artificial device like a dam would surely create something akin to a malignant abscess in a quiet and sacred part of nature.  
 

Please come visit us and let us show you what you can help preserve!

What about the disruption this project will surely have on the quality of the drinking water of NYC’s 18,800,000+ residents??  

NYC enjoys some of the cleanest water in the world, filtered by the very stream this project would invade.  Putting any industrial development between the Big Apple and its nourishment would potentially create havoc.  I wouldn’t envy you if your project ever affects the drinking water of those 18 million people.   

And I, personally, have spent many years in California, the source of the energy group proposing to “develop” our area.

I have seen what their reservoirs have done to the countryside out there.

I have seen where they have destroyed so much of their own ecosystems under the guise of “enlightened energy”.  Not only are their reservoirs of water unnecessary out here on the east coast, where we get rain all year long, they are also detrimental to the natural order.

With the decimation of so many fish species, with the destruction of so much riparian habitat, and with wildfires that will burn into history books, the management of water in California has not worked out well.  Now a California power company wants to bring their model here?   

No, thank you.

I invite you all to come visit us, personally, at Woodland Valley. Please come stay with my family and me*. Let us show you the deep value of this very special place.  You will leave with a brighter heart, I assure you.

After a brief visit, you will not only choose to let it be as it is, you will not want to leave.  We will show you some of the good things of what life can be about. 

With hope and gratitude,

The Walker/Halsted Clan,
1039 Woodland Valley Road
Phoenicia, NY

Please reply to:   
whileiwaswalking@hotmail.com
(917)-509-3288

