Nathaniel Gillespie

Woodland Valley Farm, LLC/ Woodland Valley Woods, LLC

624 Woodland Valley Road

Phoenicia, NY 12464

April 4, 2021

RE: MOTION TO INTERVENE ON PROJECT # 15056-000, ASHOKAN PUMPED STORAGE
PROJECT

Dear FERC,

I am filing a motion to intervene for proposed project #15056, Ashokan
Pumped Storage Project. I co-own 9.1 acres of property at 624 Woodland
Valley Rd (24.8.1.11), and am a member of Woodland Valley Woods, LLC, 20
acres in size, and Woodland Valley Farm, LLC, approximately 105 acres in
size, which would be inundated by the proposed reservoir in Woodland
Valley associated with the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

Our family has owned and lived on this property since 1835, making me a
seventh-generation owner of land that would have to be taken away by
imminent domain to be buried forever under water. The property includes
a homestead constructed in 1865 following the conclusion of the Civil
War and an original barn built in that era. We have a gravesite on the
property, and numerous family heirlooms from generations of family who
were born on, who served the military during the Civil War, the First
World War and World War II, who worked, and who died on this property.
Our family has invested significant time in collaboration with NYC DEP
to serve as good stewards of the property in its important role in
contributing clean drinking water downstream to New York residents,
including the sale of a 97-acre conservation easement to NYC DEP in 2014
that sacrificed our right to further subdivide and develop much of the
property in perpetuity to help ensure watershed protection. We adopted a
Forest Management Stewardship plan through NYC DEP in 2014 and entered
the Woodland Valley Woods, LLC property into the National Tree Farm
System to ensure best management practices and long-term sustainable
management ensures water quality, wildlife and timber conservation for
future generations. Our family is involved in important American
Chestnut restoration with the New York Chapter of the American Chestnut
Society on the property. I, as well as my family, would therefore be
impacted financially, physically, and on a very real level, spiritually,
from the proposed project #15056.

Not only is this property invaluable to me and my family, the proposed
reservoir construction and operation would generate unacceptable risk to
New York City DEP’s unfiltered water supply downstream in the Ashokan
Reservoir via numerous short-term and long-term impacts. The property
currently serves an important role in maintaining the unfiltered water
supply for New York City Department of Environmental Protection (NYC
DEP) via its contribution to the high- water quality currently found in
Woodland Valley Creek, its floodplains, and several tributaries and
wetlands located on the property. The proposed reservoir and pumped
storage operation would literally destroy all of these important
hydrological resources. Construction of the reservoir dam, associated
blasting for the dam and connecting underground tunnel, land clearing
and clearcutting to remove standing vegetation beneath the reservoir
pool, and roadbuilding to replace many miles of Woodland Valley Road
would all cause significant fine sediment, turbidity and water quality
impacts to Woodland Creek, Esopus Creek and the Ashokan Reservoir for
many years. But the major water quality impacts would not be limited to
the 5 or more years of construction and disturbance: the daily
fluctuation of the proposed Woodland Valley Reservoir to serve the
pumped storage needs would erode and resuspend fine sediment and
colloidal clay found in numerous naturally-occurring glacial lacustrine
clay deposits throughout the stream, floodplain and valley. The
underlying geology therefore would contribute turbidity to Esopus Creek
and the Ashokan reservoir potentially on a daily basis, causing great
impact and unacceptable risk to New York City’s drinking water supply to
over 9 million people.

The Woodland Creek serves as an important and valued recreational
resource in its current state for me and my family as well. The Woodland
Creek is a storied wild trout fishery, and provides very significant
spawning and rearing habitat for wild brook, brown and rainbow trout
which migrate annually from the Ashokan Reservoir and the Esopus Creek
to use these fertile headwaters to spawn. The proposed reservoir would
eliminate the current fishery within more than 3 miles of Woodland
Creek, it would forever sever the vital connection of more than 13 miles
of coldwater habitat used by trout in the Esopus Creek/Ashokan Reservoir
causing significant impact to this recreationally valuable fishery. If
the proposed project is permitted to be constructed, it would also
degrade the Esopus Creek fishery downstream from altered water
temperature, sediment regime and water quality impacts from the proposed
reservoir construction and operation. Due to the potential negative
effects of the proposed pumped storage reservoir on the Woodland Creek,
Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir and their cherished wild trout
fishery, I am filing as an intervenor as well.

Sincerely,

Nathaniel Gillespie
