Ashokan Pumped Energy Storage Comments – First Step 3-31-21

On behalf of Northern Catskills Audubon Society, the 350-member chapter
of the National Audubon Society, and whose chapter territory includes
the area of this proposal, I offer these comments in opposition to the
proposed Ashokan Pumped Energy Storage Project, Docket P-15056.

The proposed project is located within the Catskill Peaks Important Bird
Area (IBA), identified by Audubon New York as one of the largest
contiguous forest tracts in the state. The area was given IBA
designation due to the presence of high-elevation breeding bird species,
such as Bicknell’s Thrush and Blackpoll Warbler, as well as home to the
suite of lower-elevation forest nesting birds. Many of these are
considered species of Special Concern or Threatened in New York State,
or Species of Greatest Conservation Need and include American Black
Duck, Osprey, Bald Eagle, Sharp-shinned Hawk, Cooper’s Hawk, Northern
Goshawk, Red-shouldered Hawk, Peregrine Falcon, American Woodcock,
Olive-sided Flycatcher, Wood Thrush, Scarlet Tanager, Cerulean Warbler,
Black-throated Blue Warbler, and Canada Warbler. In addition to state
protections, Bald Eagle is afforded federal protection under the Bald
and Golden Eagle Protection Act. The Ashokan Reservoir, as part of the
IBA, is an important site for wintering waterfowl and it is unknown how
water depth fluctuations from this project would affect those birds.

Permanent protection of this IBA is of utmost importance to protecting
the aforementioned species. This project, if approved, would fragment
the forest to the detriment of those species, as well as species
currently not identified as in need of protections.

We urge FERC to stop this project before much time and money are
needlessly spent, given that further, detailed negative environmental
effects that will certainly be identified in an EIS if the project is
approved to move to the next step.

Sincerely,

Larry Federman

President, Northern Catskills Audubon Society, Inc.
