

Eric A. Goldstein, New York, NY.
           INITIAL STATEMENT OF THE NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL
        RE: PRELIMINARY PERMIT APPLICATION OF PREMIUM ENERGY HOLDINGS LLC
               BEFORE THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
                FOR AN ASHOKAN PUMP STORAGE PROJECT, P-15060
	              Eric A. Goldstein, Senior Attorney
The Natural Resources Defense Council (“NRDC”) submits this initial statement in opposition to the January 29, 2021 application of Premium Energy Holdings for permission to conduct a feasibility study regarding construction of a Reservoir Pump Storage Project in Ulster County, New York, within the boundaries of the historic Catskill Forest Preserve and New York City’s Catskill Watershed, which provides unfiltered drinking water to 9 million downstate residents.   
NRDC is a national, non-profit legal and scientific organization that has worked for more than 5 decades on a wide range of environmental and natural resource protection issues.  Among other things, this has included extensive work to safeguard the Catskill Watershed (the primary source of the nation’s largest municipal drinking water supply) and to protect and enhance the Catskill Forest Preserve ( a national model for land preservation and public recreation for more than 100 years).  
While NRDC is not conceptually opposed to the use of hydropower to help meet New York State’s energy needs, the location of the proposed project in the heart of the Catskill Watershed and in or near the Forest Preserve within the Catskill Park would pose unnecessary and unreasonable risks to the downstate drinking water supply and to the area’s world-renown waterways and sensitive ecology.
One problem with this project is the danger it would pose to the Ashokan Reservoir.  The Ashokan serves as the terminal reservoir of the Catskill system and in non-drought periods provides more than 40% of the total downstate water supply.  But according to the developer’s application, the proposed project would necessitate massive construction in the Ashokan watershed --  including the building of a new upper reservoir of between 226 and 313 acres in size, a tunnel 50-feet in diameter, a powerhouse and transformer station and up to 17 miles of transmission lines, with the lower water source affecting the Ashokan Reservoir itself.  The Ashokan Reservoir already faces serious turbidity problems that represent a growing danger to this unfiltered water supply.  Filtration of the Catskill system would cost billions of dollars in construction costs and hundreds of millions more in annual operating costs.  Thus, the possible locations for the proposed Ashokan pump storage operation would all entail significant construction and land use changes in the immediate vicinity of the one of the region’s most important drinking water sources and would represent an exceptionally risky and ill-advised project on both environmental and economic grounds. 
A second danger from the proposed project is harm to the Esopus Creek.  The Upper Esopus Creek plays a major role in the New York City water supply system.  It is the primary conduit of drinking water into the Ashokan Reservoir from the Schoharie Reservoir and a waterbody that has suffered for years from serious turbidity problems.  The Esopus is also a world-famous tourism spot, known for its trout fishing and for its canoeing, kayaking and tubing opportunities -- an important economic resource in the region.  Numerous studies and reports have advocated for increased protection for the Upper Esopus.  The proposed pump station, in contrast, would bring increased construction and terrain-altering activities in the immediate vicinity of this vulnerable and essential watercourse.  
While a preliminary permit would not authorize Premium Energy Holdings LLC to operate or start construction on any such pump storage facility, it would begin what would likely be an extensive and we believe ultimately fruitless review process that could continue for years. For example, a full Environmental Impact Statement would be necessary under the National Environmental Policy Act to assess multiple adverse environmental and natural resource impacts and to guide decision-makers in reviewing alternatives to the proposed action.  So too would be compliance with federal Clean Water Act requirements, including a certification under Section 401 of the Act for discharge into navigable waters.  Reviews for consistency with numerous other State and local environmental and land use laws would also be required.  And so would demonstrations that the proposed facility would not violate any of New York City’s Watershed Rules and Regulations or the State Health Department and federal EPA-approved Safe Drinking Water Act’s 2017 Filtration Avoidance Determination. 
It is tempting to say that the project sponsor would shoulder the costs of all of these and other review processes, so the burden is simply on Premium Energy Holdings LLC.  Not so.  Participating in the multiple reviews that this permit process would trigger will end up costing state, city and local governments, as well as not-for-profit organizations, hundreds of thousands of dollars.  Why should local governments and non-profit organizations, in particular, have to bear such costs and invest thousands of person-hours to staff such permit and review processes for a project that should, on its face, be rejected due to its wholly unsuitable proposed locations?  
oFr  all these  reasons, FERC should  deny the  preliminary permite p.  aAlternativelym, tshould dirrct sthe psonsor to sprovide sufficiient fundsstso  that  local governments and  non profit groups in partticular cann participate meaninglf=lly in the tforthcoming proceediings.  hat yof

