

Anne-Marie Johansson, WEST SHOKAN, NY.
Anne-Marie Johansson
West Shokan, NY 12494
April 12, 2021 
RE: FERC Docket # P-15056- – Ashokan Pumped Storage Project 
Dear Ms. Bose, 
I am writing to request that you deny the preliminary permit application, Docket P-15056, for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project submitted by Premium Energy Holding, LLC.  
As a life-long resident of the Catskills and a small business owner in West Shokan for over 30 years, I will be directly impacted by the proposed project. My tourism-based Bed and Breakfast business overlooks the west basin of the Ashokan Reservoir and the proposed reservoir infrastructure developments and power lines will be visible and impact and harm my business. It will also impact the community and all visitors to the Ashokan Reservoir. It will cause fishing by boat on the Ashokan Reservoir to be curtailed or eliminated due to the dangerous conditions caused by rapid flows and fluctuations in level of the water caused by the Pump Storage Operations. Tourism around the Ashokan Reservoir has dramatically increased in the last year due to over 200,000 visitors to the new Ashokan Rail Trail (ART) which runs directly along the north eastern shore of the Ashokan Reservoir. They will understand that FERC does not normally deny a preliminary permit, but this applicant has not met a minimum standard to achieve legal and regulatory approvals, nor to deal with environmental issues their proposal will create, nor have they presented a design that is realistic nor that meets modern design best practices for a closed loop pump storage system. There will also be an impact to my property value, to my personal quality of life and experiences as well as my safety or the safety of the community. 
One of the most significant ecological and health risks in this Water Supply is turbidity. Turbidity is a product of the geology of the Catskills. The current proposal is not a closed loop system design as suggested in the application. The design will clearly interrupt existing streams and will introduce more turbidity and disrupting the natural cycles of turbidity will affect not only the environment and fisheries, but also the NYC water supply. This additional turbidity will also impact the communities below the Ashokan Reservoir, and the water supplies of communities dependent upon the Hudson River for their drinking water in the Mid-Hudson region.   
Residents of Ulster County depend upon NYC DEP to provide dam safety and flood mitigation services. The threats of terrorism have heightened the protection and security throughout the NYC watershed. This level of terrorism protection is not part of the proposal made by the applicant. The applicant must be responsible to ensure dam safety as guided by FERC. The applicant would also have to provide Security and Safety to the 9 million water supply customer against any terrorist threats to the water supply commensurate to the efforts provided by the NYC Water Supply Police and the NYC DEP.  
Therefore, for all these reasons, I urge you to reject Premium Energy Holding’s proposed preliminary application for Docket P-15056 for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project.

Respectfully,


Anne-Marie Johansson


