

Juliette Mapp, Boiceville, NY.
To Whom It May Concern, 

I live in the Catskill Watershed and would like to draw your attention to a proposal from Premium Energy: FERC project and sub-docket number: P-15056. This is regarding Premium Energy’s application for a preliminary permit to conduct studies on building a pumped storage plant utilizing the Ashokan reservoir.

This project raises serious environmental concerns and I ask that this permit be denied for a number of reasons outlined below.

First, this is not, as Premium Energy argues, a closed-loop project. It is an add-on project, which will have a much greater environmental impact than a closed-loop project. 

Secondly, a site where the storage facilities are being proposed is designated “forever wild” under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, which asserts that such lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” To build a project on such a site is a violation of the New York State Constitution.

All the sites in this proposal are within the Catskills, which is designated as Status 1 land. According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 
 
Third, the sites in this project are foraging habitats for many threatened species such as the northern long-eared bat and habitat for birds which are designated under New York’s Species of Greatest Conservation Need such as the black-throated blue warbler, scarlet tanager, and wood thrush, as well as for species designated of Special Concern such as the Cooper’s Hawk, red-shouldered hawk, and the sharp-shinned hawk, and the eastern hognose snake.

In addition, the Esopus are trout waters and trout spawning habitat. Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which can severely impact aquatic and land habitats. Sediment in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters. Valuable trout breeding habitat will invariably be lost.

I understand the need for clean energy and for pumped storage. However, these proposed locations are crucial to the habitat of threatened species and are on and Status 1 protected land. This is the wrong area for such a project.


Thank you for your consideration,  

Sincerely,
 
Juliette Mapp
234 Upper Boiceville Road
Boiceville, NY 12412


