

Russell Martin, Olivebridge, NY.
Russell Martin									April 12, 2021
115 Sheldon Hill Rd
Olivebridge, NY 12461

Ms. Kimberly Bose, Secretary						
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street NE
Washington DC 20426


RE: Project P-15056 (Ashokan Pumped Storage)

Dear Secretary Bose:

I write to express my opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ plan regarding a pumped storage facility sited in the vicinity of the Ashokan Reservoir. While the proposed filing leaves much to the imagination, the project would result in significant harm to the environment, public lands, and local communities. 

As an angler along the Esopus and Ashokan Reservoir, this project stands to reduce aquatic diversity and threatens prime brook trout habitat. While studies in the Catskills are ongoing, tributaries of the Esopus are known to hold brook trout strains that have evolved over time to be unique to their specific tributaries. The loss of these waters and trout populations would be a significant blow to the biodiversity of the Catskills and North America. With regards to the Esopus proper, the project will also likely increase turbidity, reducing angling enjoyment and harming several fish species through impacts to the food web. 

As a hiker and hunter of these mountains, the project will likely require the destruction of constitutionally protected Catskill Park lands classified as “wild forest” or “wilderness” areas. These lands, purchased or donated for the enjoyment of all, should not be inundated and removed from public use. Additionally, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has noted their opposition to the destruction of these land in their April 12th comments.

Finally, as a homeowner in the Town of Olive, I find it outrageous that eminent domain could be used to take land or houses to complete this project. The modest 800 megawatts of power netted from the project do not justify the damage to communities that would result from the removal of homes through negotiation or taking. In this real estate market, it is clear that families would be forced to leave the area, as housing stock remains extremely limited. 

Renewable energy is an important part of our future. Ambitious goals set for our transition to greener power sources and the limits of solar and wind power to produce electricity twenty-four hours a day require novel ideas and investment both in New York and nationwide. This pumped storage project is not novel and creates more problems than it solves. By denying this permit, you’ll spare the rivers and townspeople of Ulster County from having to navigate a study that stands no chance of coming to fruition. 

Respectfully,
Russell Martin

