

Christopher Parris-Lamb, Brooklyn, NY.
To Whom It May Concern: 

I am writing to voice my objection in no uncertain terms to the application by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. That the federal government would even consider granting a private company--one with no connection to the area or to New York state--the right to build another reservoir in the Esopus watershed, given the impact to both the environment and to affected homeowners, is extremely worrisome; that it would do so for a project that would involve the construction of a massive underground hydro plant requiring miles of pipeline is inconceivable. As a homeowner in Boiceville and an avid fisherman, I can hardly begin to imagine the impact the project would have both in the short term, during the construction process, and for years to come. Hundreds of people would be evicted from their homes through eminent domain; property values within the entire watershed would be adversely affected; worst of all, from my standpoint, a world class fishery--the Esopus and its tributaries--that is quite literally part of the cradle of American fly-fishing, and whose brook, brown, and rainbow trout spawn in all three of the streams in which a proposed reservoir could be located--would be forever harmed. The Esopus was just returned to Wild status six months ago (see here: https://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/fish_marine_pdf/apcdrafttsmp.pdf), meaning that hatchery trout will no longer be stocked. Why on earth would anyone even consider a project that would undo all the progress that has been made on behalf of the Esopus so soon thereafter? Most troubling of all is what would happen to the watershed's populations of Eastern Brook Trout, which inhabit and spawn in all three streams where a reservoir has been proposed. Brook trout, which once inhabited nearly every cold-water stream from Maine to Georgia, now occupy less than 10% of their remaining habitat--and Bush Kill, Stony Clove Creek, and Woodland Valley Creek are three of the very few remaining streams in the Catskills with healthy brook trout populations. I know; I've treasured the brook trout I've caught and released in all three.

In 2021, society needs to be pursuing alternative energy sources that avoid the kind of environmental impact that would result from Premium Energy's proposed project. Wind and solar power is growing cheaper and more efficient by the month; let's invest in the future, not the old ways of doing things. Please reject this application. 

Sincerely, 

Chris Parris-Lamb
Brooklyn, NY

