

Stephen Sanchez, Shandaken, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the detrimental proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be highly disruptive to the local community, local businesses, and the area's biggest industry: tourism. 

Beyond the problem of community displacement, there is also the proposed project’s effect on the Catskills’ growing tourism economy, which generated 17% of employment in the Catskill region in 2019, and is a $1.6 billion industry, supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. Premium Energy’s project would limit access to hiking, fishing, and other forms of recreation in the Catskills, decrease the area’s natural beauty, cut off access to skiing and concerts at Hunter Mountain, Hunter, and Tannersville, and otherwise dampen tourism in the region, negatively affecting businesses in Ulster County and beyond.

Our facility, the Copperhood Retreat, is located in the town of Shandaken and relies on the Route 28 corridor as a lifeline to our business. We are also on the Esopus Creek which feeds into the Ashokan Reservoir and depend on our area's pristine environment to attract hikers, fisherman, and city dwellers of all types looking for a respite from their urban surroundings. The Catskill Park and its communities have already endured too much displacement and hardships as part of the NYC watershed for the benefit of others outside the region. 

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Stephen Sanchez
Owner
Copperhood Retreat & Spa

