

Linda Yassky, Phoenicia, NY.
We are writing to register our strong opposition to the application filed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC ("Premium Energy") Project No. P-15056:000, for a preliminary permit. For the reasons discussed below, as well as those cited by over 800 entities and individuals in opposition to this ill-conceived proposal, we implore The Federal Energy Commission (FERC) to deny this permit application. 
 
Notwithstanding, we are vehemently opposed to using any of the three proposed sites – Woodland Valley in Phoenicia, Stony Clove in Lanesville, or Wittenberg Road in Olive to build a new reservoir for this proposed pumped storage. The construction of a new reservoir at any of these locations would require the flooding of protected land, adversely impacting two of the Catskills' most precious and inextricably intertwined resources: our local ecology and tourism. Indeed, the Catskills are not just "our backyard," but the backyard of over 12 million annual visitors (this does not count residents) from around the world to, among other things, hike her trails, climb her mountains, swim in her pristine waters, study her plants and animals, ski her mountains and breathe her fresh air.  
 
Before we address some of the many reasons Premium Energy's plan for the Ashokan Reservoir and its environs is untenable, we want to draw FERC's attention to two glaring missteps on Premium Energy's part that we believe raise serious questions about its integrity and overall wherewithal to actually see a project of this magnitude through to fruition. 
 
First, by all accounts, it appears that Premium Energy failed to either confer with or notify critical stakeholders about this proposed project. 
Notable among these are the New York City Department of Environmental Protection, which is responsible for overseeing and protecting the Ashokan Reservoir, as well as several other affected townships, including the Town of Olive and the Town of Shandaken. Simply put, this smells of bad faith.  
 
Second, Premium Energy's permit application disingenuously characterizes its proposed development as a "closed-loop" pumped storage (a less environmentally impactful process for harnessing the power that is eligible for streamlined FERC approval). Nothing is further from the truth as both the Ashokan Reservoir and its surrounding watershed are a continuously flowing natural water source. As FERC well knows, projects where an upper reservoir is added to an existing lower reservoir – as is proposed here – does not suddenly make it a closed-loop system but rather an "add-on" to an existing "open-loop" system.  
 
While one could dismiss these two discrepancies as oversights, given the stakes here, it is more likely that these were attempts to subvert best practices and push through what Premium Energy knows is a poorly conceived plan that was likely to meet significant resistance. Indeed, while Premium Energy's website highlights proposals for at least four other pumped storage projects, it does not appear that the Company has ever developed or operated a pumped storage facility. We would expect that a prospective permit holder's "track record" is a relevant consideration to your agency when considering proposals of this magnitude and scope.  
 
We are mindful that the New York state needs to move away from our reliance on fossil fuels and that hydroelectric power offers such an opportunity. However, the Ashokan Pump Storage Plan is not the type of innovation the Department of Energy wants as the negative impacts far outweigh the minimal benefits.   
 
According to Premium Energy's permit application, the APSP would generate only 800 megawatts of hydropower. Notably, that is less energy than what would be required to pump the water uphill to the "new reservoir." The creation of 800 megawatts of power (to be sold at a higher price when the grid requires) appears to be the only thing to be gained by this project, of which Premium Energy and not the citizens of Ulster County and the Catskills, is the sole beneficiary.  
 
As you know, the APSP is located entirely within the Catskills Forest Preserve, 700,000 acres of contiguous wildlife habitat in what has become an increasingly fragmented environment. While Premium Energy's permit application and accompanying topographical maps are fuzzy/inaccurate, it is indisputable that building a massive underground power station, flooding hundreds of acres of protected land and constructing a huge multi-mile underground tunnel to carry the water between a newly-built upper reservoir and the Ashokan, would cause significant disruption to the surrounding plant and animal life.   
 
The impact of the APSP on stream ecology would be significant as pumped storage facilities are subject to rapid water fluctuations that wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. Altering the sediment regime in tributaries will also alter the Esopus and thus endanger one of the Catskills' most vital trout waters and valuable trout breeding grounds. 

Additionally, the Catskill/Delaware Water Supply provides 90% of New York City's water supply at a rate 1 billion gallons a day to over 9.5 million people. Within that system, over 40% of New York City's water supply passes through the Ashokan Reservoir. There is no doubt that this pumped storage project is likely o increase the turbidity in the Ashokan, which would decrease the quality of New York City's water. 

Similarly, the impact of this proposal on Catskills' tourism would be significant. The Catskills functions as a collective "backyard" for millions of people every year. Woodland Valley is among the most popular destinations in the Catskills. The Woodland Valley campground is one of the state's oldest campgrounds with over 5400 overnight campers and 2600 day-use visitors annually. Under the proposed plan to flood Woodland Valley, access to that campground would be cut off.  

