

Kevin Scisorek, Pitman, NJ.
FERC project number, P-15056

I write to you today in vehement opposition of the preliminary permit application by Premium Energy in their effort to build a storage hydroplant in the Woodland Valley region of the Catskill Mountain Preserve.

When New York passed their clean energy standard in 2015 with the means to produce 70% of its energy through more renewable sources I'm sure its citizens rejoiced at the thought of doing better for the environment. How devastated they would be at the means by which this would be accomplished, by the destruction of acres and acres of protected forest lands. Even calling this "clean energy" is nothing short of complete hypocrisy, and I'm sure that at the time the voting took place if it was noted that this clean energy standard would involve the destruction of protected forest lands I highly doubt that it would have passed.

Article XIV of the NYS Constitution states (in relation to protected forest lands) that the lands  “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private”. Premium Energy seems to want to gloss over over fact that the lands which they are proposing to flood out were established as the Catskill Mountain Preserve in 1885, thereby giving them full protection under Article XIV. Being that this is a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are also considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” Direct from the Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” This being yet another fact that Premium Energy would like to turn a blind eye to.

These lands have been protected for a reason, as they are habitats for some plant, bird, bat and snake species on NY’s “threatened”, “special concern”, or “greatest conservation need” lists. Including the bog orchid, northern long-eared bat, scarlet tanager, wood thrush, black-throated blue warbler, and three hawk species just to name a few notable species. Not to mention the significant damage it would do to trout breeding areas. This alone should be reason enough to reject the permit. It would be a tremendous oversight to allow the destruction of an area, that has been protected for almost 150 years in the interest of preserving nature, in the name of an energy standard designed to limit environmental impacts.

I adamantly oppose this project and request that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission deny this preliminary permit.


