

Linda Yassky, Phoenicia, NY.
Linda Yassky and Georges Nahitchevansky e-comment P-15056:000
PART TWO 
 
FERC SHOULD DENY PREMIUM ENERGY'S APPLICATION FOR THE ASHOKAN PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT 
 
The Negative Impacts Outweigh the Limited Benefits:
 
We are mindful that the New York state needs to move away from our reliance on fossil fuels and that hydroelectric power offers such an opportunity. However, the Ashokan Pump Storage Plan is not the type of innovation the Department of Energy wants as the negative impacts far outweigh the minimal benefits.   
 
According to Premium Energy's permit application, the APSP would generate only 800 megawatts of hydropower. Notably, that is less energy than what would be required to pump the water uphill to the "new reservoir." The creation of 800 megawatts of power (to be sold at a higher price when the grid requires) appears to be the only thing to be gained by this project, of which Premium Energy and not the citizens of Ulster County and the Catskills, is the sole beneficiary.  
 
As you know, the APSP is located entirely within the Catskills Forest Preserve, 700,000 acres of contiguous wildlife habitat in what has become an increasingly fragmented environment. While Premium Energy's permit application and accompanying topographical maps are fuzzy/inaccurate, it is indisputable that building a massive underground power station, flooding hundreds of acres of protected land and constructing a huge multi-mile underground tunnel to carry the water between a newly-built upper reservoir and the Ashokan, would cause a significant disruption to the surrounding plant and animal life.   
 
It feels like everywhere you go in the Catskills, you see a running stream along the roadside or water gushing out of the side of a mountain, all on their way to our wonderful and historic Esopus River and ultimately the Ashokan Reservoir. The impact of the APSP on stream ecology would be significant as pumped storage facilities are subject to rapid water fluctuations that wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. Altering the sediment regime in these tributaries will also alter the Esopus and thus endanger one of the Catskills' most vital trout waters and valuable trout breeding grounds.  
 
Additionally, the Catskill/Delaware Water Supply provides 90% of New York City's water supply at a rate of 1 billion gallons a day to over 9.5 million people. Within that system, over 40% of New York City's water supply passes through the Ashokan Reservoir. There is no doubt that this pumped storage project is likely to increase the turbidity in the Ashokan, which would decrease the quality of New York City's water. 
Moreover, climate change (evaporation, heat events and decreasing snowpack) has created uncertainty about the Ashokan's continued ability to meet New York City's water needs. Adding a pumped storage project to the equation make little to no sense.  
 
Similarly, the impact of this proposal on Catskills' tourism would be significant. As noted earlier, the Catskills functions as a collective "backyard" for millions of people every year. Ulster County where this project would be located in the single largest Catskills destination. 
In 2020 over 6.2 million people travelled to Ulster County, up from 5 million in 2019. Tourism in a $1.6 billion dollar industry supporting roughly 20,000 jobs. The reason people come to the Catskills is to recreate and enjoy nature - not a pumped storage nightmare.  
 
Woodland Valley is among the most popular destinations in the Catskills. The Woodland Valley campground is one of the state's oldest and most visited campgrounds with over 5400 overnight campers and 2600 day-use visitors annually. Under the proposed plan to flood Woodland Valley, access to that campground would be cut off. While the plan makes no mention as to how this would be remedied, it would seem that the only solution would be to build a new road that would require extensive destruction and disruption of preserve land. Finally, Woodland Valley Creek, which runs to the Esopus and eventually the Ashokan, is an extremely popular fishing destination containing cutlips, minnow, blacknose dace, brook trout, brown trout, and rainbow trout among many others. 
 
For all of these reasons, we ask that your Commission deny Premium Energy Proposal application for a preliminary permit to conduct studies on building a pumped storage plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir.  
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
 
Linda Yassky yasskylinda@gmail.com
Georges Nahitchevansky zampano1812@gmail.com 
 



