

Matthew Furlong, Phoenicia, NY.
Dear FERC,

Perhaps it made sense to Premium Energy Holdings sitting at their desks in an office park in Walnut, CA scouring the geologic maps of the country for suitable project sites... Perhaps from a desktop view, the abundant water supply of the Catskills region, which has attracted settlers, poets, industry, and the City of New York (for water resources), indeed presents an attractive opportunity to Premium Energy Holdings to court investors and deploy their radically ecologically destructive technology...

However, in the real world, to the residents of the Catskills area, the nearly 9 million residents of New York City with a 40% dependence on the Ashokan reservoir for drinking water, the scores of tourists visiting the Catskills region annually, and the countless many who fought to secure Catskills Park as a state constitutionally-protected natural habitat in 1885, the proposed Ashokan Pump Storage Project is an absolutely terribly conceived plan that poses a direct risk to the current health and safety of NYC residents and spoils one of the most naturally, geologically, and historically significant regions of the country for generations to come.

I am writing as a part-time resident of both NYC and Woodland Valley to express my total opposition to Premium Energy Holdings’ proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. Please know that my property in Woodland Valley would not be impacted by the proposed Woodland Valley upland site. If anything, by the laws of real estate, the availability of less property in the Woodland Valley area, would likely raise the price of my property! So please let me be clear, that my opposition to this project is far from property- or financially-motivated.

Besides the critical strategic asset that the Ashokan Reservoir represents to the water needs of City of New York, which on its face illustrates the ridiculousness of this project, the Catskills region represents one of the most naturally, geologically, and historically significant regions of the country. The Catskills represented America’s first frontier with the untold natural beauty of the region inspiring artists and writers to celebrate the wonder of America while instilling a spirit of manifest destiny in the hearts of Americans for decades to come.

Speaking for Woodland Valley, one of the proposed secondary reservoir sites, the Woodland Valley area has immense ecological, historical, and environmental significance to the region and country - whether its the area’s use to 1) geologists researching Pantherkill Mountain, which was the site of an ancient meteorite crater, 2) tourists visiting the celebrated Roxmor Colony (founded in 1899) along with the nearby home of artist Thomas Bigelow Craig (the farm reputedly one of naturalist John Burroughs’ favorite places in the Catskills), or 3) modern adventurers and naturalists looking to stay at the historic Woodland Valley Campground and explore the natural wonders at its front door. More broadly, it should be noted that tourism to the Catskills accounts for $1.6Bn annually and supports ~20,000 jobs.

By no means do I oppose radical efforts to scale renewable energy development to help to address the catastrophic climate risks facing humanity. The risks and ecological destruction associated with THIS proposed project, however, fail terribly at addressing the climate problem it proports to help solve. And do I understand correctly that over 50% of the energy produced by the plant would have to go towards operating the plant and not each reach the grid??? How ridiculous when you think of the financial costs and massive environment destruction associated with the proposed project!!!

Perhaps it made sense from a desk in Walnut, CA... However, a simple Google search of the Catskill area’s ecological, historical, and economic importance followed by basic initial outreach to community stakeholders, would have swiftly and conclusively illustrated to Premium Energy Holdings that this proposed project DOES NOT MAKE ANY SENSE IN THE CATSKILLS!!!

I strongly hope that with the chorus of diverse voices rising in opposition to this project, that FERC will make the right decision to not advance this project whatsoever.

Thank you kindly for providing stakeholders this opportunity to share rationale for our opposition.

Wishing FERC the best of luck in all that you do to protect and regulate our country’s energy infrastructure.

Best regards,
Matthew J. Furlong
195 Muddy Brook Rd., Phoenicia, NY 12464

