

Fara Warner, West Shokan, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose, 

I have read with growing concern the application for a preliminary permit by Premium Energy Holdings LLC to build a large damned reservoir in the Catskills, a New York State Preserve that is protected by the New York State Constitution. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

This should be enough for FERC to deny Premium Energy Holding's preliminary proposal. But I know it will not be enough. I hope then that citizens' concern and love for the Catskills Preserve will make a difference.  

This proposal would change forever the nature of the Catskills Preserve,700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat (very rare in our increasingly fragmented environment), and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. It would be a true crime to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, and would set a doomed precedent for protected lands across the country. 

I live across from the Ashokan Reservoir, where no motor boating is allowed, fishing is allowed with license, dogs aren't allowed near the reservoir, we do not swim in the reservoir. We abide by these rules because we consider this pristine water to be a natural resource that while used with care also must be protected. Right now I can see eagles nesting and feeding. I watch bear and deer go to the reservoir for water. I revel in our dark nights that protect this wilderness. The Ashokan also supplies 40 percent of the drinking water to New York City. All of this would be under peril if this project were to go forward. 

I also have personal concerns that are shared by my neighbors. The proposed high voltage transmission lines would run through and over my property. It is possible that I would be displaced from my home with little recourse but to try and buy another home in a county that is suffering from a housing shortage. Even if my home wasn't taken by eminent domain, I would live with the transmission lines running across my property or nearby. Those lines would affect not just me and my health, but the health and well-being of the wildlife that we hold very dear here in the Catskills, notably the regal and majestic bald and golden eagles that have made such a comeback in this area due to the protections afforded by the Catskills Preserve. I am but one of hundreds of people who live along the southern and western edges of the Catskills. I know I am not the only who read this proposal with personal concern. 

I believe deeply in the need to shift our energy system from fossil fuels to electric systems, but not when it comes with such risk to a natural environment that serves millions of people. This proposal isn't innovative and is flawed even its conception. 

Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. This is why Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop” rather than being honest about what their project actually is: an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This kind of project carries with it significantly higher risks, even when the lower reservoir is not a vital source of drinking water for our nation’s largest city. How can we trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval?

Our country’s transition to renewable, green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.


I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

Thank you, 
Fara Warner 


