

benjamin cannon, new york, NY.
Dr. Benjamin Cannon, PhD
24 Bennett Avenue, Apt. 46A
New York, NY 10033

To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. I urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

I am an avid hiker and camper, and the Catskills is my favorite park in the world. And within the Catskills, there is nowhere more beautiful, or wilder, than the wilderness off of Moon Haw Road--the place that the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project is proposed. Down a long dirt road that follows the pristine Wittenberg Brook, there’s a tiny gravel lot. On either side of that lot there are the sheer sides of mountains going up to the ridges that ring the valley. Hardy hikers, snowshoers, runners know and love this spot. There’s a trail, dizzyingly steep, that climbs through oak and then pine up to the sheer rocks of the ridgeline. Its steepness and remoteness keep it wild; there are no potato chip bags or beer bottles on the trails. Just trees and chipmunks and woodpeckers and black bears and the healthy deer that venture up into the valley in droves to feed in the warmer months. 

Once you get into the forest, water is everywhere. Icy, crystalline streams, the cleanest I have ever encountered. It is a landscape shaped by and dominated by water, a massive catchment basin formed by the valley bowl that drains into Wittenberg Brook and later into the reservoirs that provide New York City’s water. These streams, fast and cold as they may be, are filled with life: crayfish hunt under rocks, minnows and tadpoles spurt through the current. Newts, northern brown snakes and northern water snakes, snapping turtles, painted turtles, and myriad other species hunt and breed along these streams. 

There is nowhere like it that I know of, certainly nowhere as near to a major city. It is a respite not only for the animals that call it home, but for humans looking for a place that is still wild, a place not carved up for human use. To destroy this place and turn it into a giant battery would be a profound violation. I understand the need for sustainable energy storage, but it cannot come at the cost of the ecological devastation of the last corners of the earth not already destroyed by humanity. It simply cannot. 


Sincerely, 

Dr. Benjamin Cannon





