

Daniel Case, Walden, NY.
I am writing to comment on the preliminary permit sought by Premium Energy for its proposed pumped-storage hydroelectric project on Ashokan Reservoir near Boiceville, NY, Application P-15056:000.
FERC should stop this project right here so everyone involved in any capacity can get back as soon as possible to spending their money and time on more productive endeavors, including Premium Energy. And at least that way they can preserve the dubious achievement they already seem to have made, of submitting a major power-infrastructure project that not only fails to take into account the concerns of major stakeholders (in this case, the state’s Department of Environmental Conservation, New York City’s Department of Environmental Conservation, Trout Unlimited, Ulster County and of course the local towns and every outdoor-recreation, environmental or conservation organization within a hundred miles of this project), but seems in fact to be completely unaware that those stakeholders exist, without really tossing too much of their investors’ money down the toilet.
My interests in this project are diverse: As a hiker, I have climbed many of the surrounding mountains, not only those required for membership in the 3500 Club (on whose board I once served), more than once, parking at the trailheads (or, in the case of Moon Haw, starting point) that the project would inundate. I have waded hip deep into the portions of the Esopus Creek Premium would forever alter to cast and float flies in a vain effort to land one of the stream’s rainbows. As a volunteer Wikipedia editor, I have written, researched and taken many of the pictures in our article about the Esopus, which is likely to be primary information source for most people commenting on this proposal, and thus have come to know its history and science intimately.
And apart from that, like so many others I just love the scenic beauty that is the upper Esopus Valley specifically and the Catskills in general.
How special are the Catskills?
In 2015 I had the privilege of accompanying my father on a whitewater rafting trip down the Firth River in Canada’s Ivvavik National Park, in that country’s northwest corner far above the Arctic Circle, an area that sees fewer visitors each year than climb Mount Everest. For nearly two weeks we rafted and camped under the midnight sun, with regular hikes long and short across the tundra and through such scrubby spruce forests (the northernmost in Canada) as there were along this truly wild river’s southern portions). After my return, I knew I had to go climb Slide Mountain again, that I might see if and how I saw that experience differently. I was delighted that my long experience with the genuinely boreal had not dulled my appreciation of the montane boreal in the slightest.
So, to the instant issue … I can best begin to illustrate the issues with this by imagining the discussion that led to it:
“Hey, Frank, look here on the map, 3,000 miles away from us … This reservoir and the streams flowing into it look like they might be a nice place for us to build a pumped-storage plant.”
“OK, are there any issues?”
“Some public land that we can probably take by eminent domain if they won’t sell it to us.”
“The lower waterbody says it’s a reservoir. Does anyone drink from it?”
“Locals, I think, if any, and if we build this they’ll probably be too grateful for the jobs to care too much about their water quality. Probably just used for flood control”
“Sounds good. Draw up some plans and send them to FERC for a preliminary permit.”
“Think I should fly out there and look around first?”
“There’s a pandemic on. You’d have to quarantine for two weeks before you could do anything. And they’re not going to approve a hotel stay that long.”
“So maybe we should wait?”
“Are you kidding? If we don’t do this, someone else will beat us to it.”
Really, it seems from the many mistakes in describing local governmental units the proposal makes that Premium’s people seemed to just feel that it was OK to do things like they do in California. Well, as the late David Bowie, who lived the last years of his life in a mansion atop one of the mountains overlooking Ashokan Reservoir, once sang, “They do it over there but we don’t do it here”
There are just so many ways this proposal comes off as willfully, almost arrogantly, ignorant of the facts on the ground. Propose to use as your lower reservoir one of the most important reservoirs used by the nation’s largest city, a city very proud of the fact that it does not have to filter most of its drinking water? A reservoir that nevertheless has generated turbidity downstream that has caused considerable friction between it and the local communities in recent years? Check! 
Release water down a stream that is considered historically important in the development of American fly fishing and still a popular destination for anglers every year due to its much greater public access than other Catskill trout streams? A stream also important to boaters? A stream both interest groups fought a long and ultimately successful court and legislative battle to control the water New York City releases into it, and remain as organized and alert as they were then? Check!
Propose as one possible upper reservoir site a lake whose flooding would require relocating a state road, a public campground and a site of considerable scenic importance in local history? Propose as your others one site very popular as a hiking trailhead, and another informally used for access to the most common route up two trailless peaks required for the 3500 Club? Check!
Assume that you can just take the public land in the area that you’d need, regardless of the state protecting it via provisions of its own constitution, provisions that have been in a place for well over a century? Check!

Please, FERC, put this out of its misery. And protect the Catskills.

