

David Kearford, Brooklyn, NY.
Secretary Kimberly Bose 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First Street, NE
Washington, DC 20426 

Re: Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, FERC Project No. P-15056

Dear Secretary Bose,

As a resident of Brooklyn and member of the New York City Chapter of Trout Unlimited, I am writing to express my concern with Premium Energy Holding's preliminary permit application to explore the feasibility of a pumped storage project utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir. While I am a strong advocate for renewable energy solutions, I am opposed to this specific project for a number of reasons, including the adverse impact it would have on New York City's drinking water supply and wild trout in the watershed.

The Ashokan Reservoir plays a critical role in the famously unfiltered drinking water supply for New York City and the municipalities that draw water from the Catskill Aqueduct as the water is transferred downstate. The Ashokan Reservoir is unique in its construction compared to other reservoirs in the system in that it has two basins, the western-most of which is used as a "settling basin" and contains over 100 years of settled silt deposited by the Esopus Creek and other tributaries to the reservoir. This is the same basin that Premium Energy Holding proposes to draw water from and pump water back into. Any benefit from the proposed project strikes me as marginal vis-a-vis the adverse impact on the drinking water from the disturbance of this sediment or the cost for New York City to implement filtration.

Just as the disturbance of sediment in the western basin of the Ashokan Reservoir would pose a risk to the drinking water supply, the increase in turbidity and likely changes in stratification of the water temperatures would also adversely impact the trout and other aquatic life in the reservoir. Furthermore, the proposed project necessitates construction of a new, higher-elevation, reservoir on one of three tributaries (two are tributaries of Esopus Creek, the other a tributary of the Ashokan Reservoir itself). This would result in the loss of trout habitat and by introducing a barrier to fish passage (the dam needed to create the new reservoir) would likely impact wild trout that move upstream in Spring and Fall to spawn.

This is especially problematic given that as of April 1 of this year, under the NYSDEC's new statewide Inland Trout Stream Management Plan, Esopus Creek is now designated as a "Wild Quality" trout stream, and neither Esopus Creek nor Woodland Stream will be stocked with hatchery-raised trout in recognition of the excellent wild trout habitat that they provide. This "rewilding" of the Esopus Creek sport fishery stands to be an even bigger boon to the local economy than it is today.

It is also probable that the headwaters of the proposed alternate sites for the new upper reservoir are home to wild native Brook Trout, and potentially, isolated populations of "heritage strain" Brook Trout (as documented in the 2019 genetic study on South Hollow in West Shokan conducted by the Ashokan-Pepacton Watershed Chapter of Trout Unlimited in partnership with NYSDEC Region 3 Fisheries as part of the Eastern Brook Trout Joint Venture). Not only are they the only "trout" native to the streams of Eastern North America, and New York's "official state freshwater fish" (since 1975), but the enclaves of "heritage strain" Brook Trout that remain are directly descended from those which first inhabited the region after the glaciers melted some 10,000 years ago, remarkably survived the overfishing and early industrial developments that decimated their numbers and natural range by the turn of the 20th century, and have since survived competition from non-native trout and interbreeding with their hatchery-raised cousins. While not on either the Federal, or State, Endangered or Threatened species lists, they are of utmost historical and ecological importance and are extremely susceptible to the encroachment of development.

I have many other concerns with Premium Energy Holding's proposal, all well documented in the many hundreds of other comments that have been submitted to date. In light of these, and my comments above, I respectfully urge FERC to deny the application.

Sincerely,

David Kearford


