

Linda Yassky, Phoenicia, NY.
PART ONE OF TWO

We are writing to register our strong opposition to the application filed by Premium Energy Holdings, LLC ("Premium Energy") Project No. P-15056:000, for a preliminary permit, to conduct studies on building a pumped storage plant utilizing the Ashokan Reservoir. For the reasons discussed below, as well as those cited by the 800 plus entities and individuals to date who have filed motions to intervene and comments in opposition to this ill-conceived proposal (which we do hereby adopt as our own), we implore The Federal Energy Commission (FERC) to deny this permit application in its entirety. 
This opposition assumes FERC has a working knowledge of The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project ("APSP") as envisioned by Premium Energy in its permit application. There is no need for us to reiterate the contents of that proposal.  

We would also like to note for the record that we have resided in Woodland Valley since 1998 and that the proposed plan to create a new reservoir in this location would directly and deleteriously impact us insofar as it would block access to our home on Pantherkill Road.  

Notwithstanding, we are vehemently opposed to using any of the three proposed sites – Woodland Valley in Phoenicia, Stony Clove in Lanesville, or Wittenberg Road in Olive to build a new reservoir for this proposed pumped storage. The construction of a new reservoir at any of these locations would require the flooding of protected land, adversely impacting two of the Catskills' most precious and inextricably intertwined resources: our local ecology and tourism. Indeed, the Catskills are not just "our backyard," but the backyard of over 12 million visitors (this does not count residents) from around the world. In 2020 to, among other things, hike her trails, climb her mountains, swim in her pristine waters, study her plants and animals, ski her mountains and breathe her fresh air.  

Before we address some of the many reasons Premium Energy's plan for the Ashokan Reservoir and its environs is untenable, we want to draw FERC's attention to two glaring missteps on Premium Energy's part that we believe raise serious questions about its integrity and overall wherewithal to actually see a project of this magnitude through to fruition. 
First, by all accounts, it appears that Premium Energy failed to either confer with or notify critical stakeholders about this proposed project. 
Notable among these are the New York City Department of Environmental Protection, which is responsible for overseeing and protecting the Ashokan Reservoir, as well as several other affected townships, including the Town of Olive and the Town of Shandaken. Simply put, this wrecks of bad faith.  
Second, Premium Energy's permit application disingenuously characterizes its proposed development as a "closed-loop" pumped storage (a less environmentally impactful process for harnessing the power that is eligible for streamlined FERC approval). Nothing is further from the truth as both the Ashokan Reservoir and its surrounding watershed are a continuously flowing natural water source. As FERC well knows, projects where an upper reservoir is added to an existing lower reservoir – as is proposed here – does not suddenly make it a closed-loop system but rather an "add-on" to an existing "open-loop" system.  
 
While one could dismiss these two discrepancies as oversights, given the stakes here, it is more likely that these were attempts to subvert best practices and push through what Premium Energy knows is a poorly conceived plan that was likely to meet significant resistance. Indeed, while Premium Energy's website highlights proposals for at least four other pumped storage projects, it does not appear that the Company has ever developed or operated a pumped storage facility. We would expect that a prospective permit holder's "track record" is a relevant consideration to your agency when considering proposals of this magnitude and scope.  
 
 
See Part Two Following
Filed by Linda Yassky and Georges Nahitchevansky 324 Pantherkill Road, Phoenicia NY 12464


