

John Hutchins, Wappingers Falls, NY.
To:
Kimberley D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commion
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Docket number P-15056-000

I would like to object to the plans for the pumped hydroelectric storage facility being
proposed by Premium Energy Holdings in the Catskill Forest Preserve.  It is ill conceived for a number of reasons.  It will require a large and permanent change to location and surrounding area where it is built.  The location for it is part of Catskill Forest Preserve in which the New York State Constitution states that the lands shall forever be kept as wild forest lands and not leased, sold or exchanged, or taken by any corporation, public or private.  The addition of the higher reservoir and transmission line directly contradict this.  The Catskill Preserve is a large,  700,000 thousand acre, continuous wildlife habitat that is home to a vast diversity of wildlife.  It is also a prime area for outdoor recreation and tourism and one of the main parts of the local economy.  Recreation and tourism support 20,000 jobs and contribute $1.6 billion to the local economy.  All of it would be degraded by building the project.  It would also be in contradiction to the DOE Hydropower Vision program which is to avoid status 1 or 2 areas according to the USGS “Gap Analysis Program. As a state forest preserve, it is considered a status 1 area.

Even though the project is being proposed as a “closed-loop pumped storage system”, it is actually an open-loop system because it connects to the existing Ashokan Reservoir which has the Esopus Creek and its tributaries running through it.  By the nature of the system, it would greatly affect the turbidity of the Ashokan Reservoir which would then have an impact on the New York City water supply.  40% of the New York City water supply runs through the Ashokan, so the impact is not minimal at all.

While solving our nation’s future energy needs is important, there are many good reasons for not approving this project.


John Hutchins
13 Stenger Ct.
Wappingers Falls, NY




