

Joel E. Cohen, West Shokan, NY.
FROM:
Joel E. Cohen
50 Bitterman Road
West Shokan, NY 12494
TO: 
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426
https://ferconline.ferc.gov/QuickComment.aspx
DATE: 2021-03-26
RE:
FERC project and subdocket number: P-15056:000
Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project
The proposal before you, "Premium Energy Holdings’ First Amendment for Preliminary Permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project, FERC Project No. 15056-000," Document Accession #: 20210201-5022 Filed Date: 02/01/2021, suffers fatal deficiencies. Granting the urgent need for more renewable energy in New York State and nationally, this application for a preliminary permit should be rejected at the outset because the proposed sites are not the right places for this project.
The proposal states falsely on p. 5 that "The location of the proposed project is: State or territory: New York, Counties: Ulster County" and again falsely on p. 7 that "Every county in which any part of the project, and any Federal facilities that would be used by the project, would be located. Ulster County." In fact, Exhibit 3, page 21, shows clearly that the proposed Stony Clove Reservoir and Dam along Route 214 are approximately 1 mile into Green County in the hamlet of Lanesville.
The proposal states falsely in Exhibit 1 on p. 11: "The proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would operate in a closed loop. Aside from evaporation and percolation losses, the project’s water would stay within the system." The Ashokan Reservoir, the proposed lower reservoir, is part of a flowing water system, fed from above by the Schoharie Reservoir, Esopus Creek, and smaller tributaries, and flowing downstream into Esopus Creek and the water-supply system of New York City (NYC). The Schoharie and Ashokan Reservoirs provide approximately 40% of the daily water supply of NYC's 9 million inhabitants. The water that would flush at high pressure (594-914 feet of head claimed in the proposal) and high velocity from any of the proposed upper reservoirs into the depth of the Ashokan Reservoir upper (western) basin would stir up a century's worth of sediment, add its own sediment, and commingle with the outflow to both NYC and Esopus Creek downstream. This is NOT a closed-loop system. It is an add-on project for open-loop pumped-storage hydropower because the proposed project’s lower reservoir, Ashokan Reservoir, is still continuously connected to, and may affect, the natural flowing water feature that was dammed to construct the Ashokan Reservoir.
The proposal states on p. 13 that approximately 15,800 acre-ft of water would be used for pumping or generating 800 MW over 12 hours of continuous output. The proposal also states on p. 13 that the Ashokan Reservoir has "around 382,358 acre-ft of storage capacity. Also, additional water volume at Ashokan reservoir would be discharged through the Esopus Creek (southeast basin)." That last sentence contradicts the proposal's earlier claim on p. 11 that this is a closed-loop system. But more importantly, the Ashokan Reservoir is divided by a spillway into a western basin upstream and an eastern basin downstream. Water is released from upstream to downstream. Therefore the western basin would take the full impact of the proposed 15,800 acre-ft of water. According to Adam Bosch at the NYC Department of Environmental Proection, the western basin has a surface area of 3,106 acres and a storage volume of 143,700 acre-ft when full.  So the daily rise and fall of the western basin would be 5.09 ft = 15800 ÷ 3106 and the 15,800 acre-ft pumped in each 12-hour power cycle would be 11% = 15,800 ÷ 143,700 of the western basin volume.  Every 9 days the entire volume of the western basin could turn over, assuming the western basin were full throughout. Most of the time, the western basin is far from full, so total turnover of the western basin would happen faster and the surface level fluctuation would be more extreme than 5 feet. Such mixing could not fail to perturb in disastrous ways the ecology within the Ashokan Reservoir, the ecologically rich areas where terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems overlap (as a result of the 5-foot surface water elevation fluctuation), and the quality of the water supplied to NYC.
The three sites proposed for the upper reservoir would cause major damage to highly preserved land in the Catskills Forest Preserve created in 1885 in Ulster County. Under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 2 land under the USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the U.S. Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development." The forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. All proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area: see https:// www.audubon.org/important-bird-areas/catskills-peaks-area. The proposed project would destroy these irreplaceable natural areas, undermine the attractiveness of the area for tourism, weaken the local economy, pollute downstream, and possibly wreck one of NYC's major capital assets, its water supply system.
In conclusion, granting the urgent need for more renewable energy in New York State and nationally, this preliminary permit application should be rejected at the outset, because the Ashokan Reservoir and surrounding forests and mountains are not the right place for this project.
Joel E. Cohen, Ph.D., Dr.P.H. (public health)
Professor and Head
Laboratory of Populations
Rockefeller University & Columbia University
1230 York Avenue, Box 20
New York, NY 10065-6399 USA


