

Stephen Ruehle, Poughkeepsie, NY.
FERC P-15056-000 Ashokan Pumped Storage project proposed by Premium Energy Holdings

I am a landowner downstream of the proposed Stony Clove Reservoir. I have three areas of concern with this project.

First, the Stony Clove Creek has experienced four (4) 100 year floods in the past 10 years. These floods have reached a discharge rate of just under 20,000 cubic feet per second. The proposed reservoir will consist of a 212 high  2,618 foot long dam holding over 950 million cubic feet of water. Any failure of this dam will be catastrophic to the hamlets of Lanesville, Chichecter, and Phoenicia along the Stony Clove. It would also impact hamlets of Mt Tremper and Boiceville on the Esopus Creek.

Second, a 13.9 mile 34 foot diameter tunnel is proposed to connect the proposed reservoir to the power generating station. The proposal does not state how deep underground this tunnel will be placed. The tunnel corridor runs through the hamlets of Lanesville, Chichecter, Phoenicia, Mt Tremper, and Boiceville. The wells for the hunderds of properties needs to be considered. Will the tunnel cut through existing wells? Will the tunnel construction damage the aquifer that supplies these wells? What mitigation plans will protect the water supply to these properties?

Third, this project contains an unprecedented amount of construction within the New York City watershed. Not only will dams and tunnels need to be created, but also town roads and NY State Route 214 will need to be relocated to make room for the proposed reservoir. The proposal implies that the Stony Clove reservoir would be on state lands. However a closer look at the details reveals the reservoir would be located just above Lanseville on private land and that NY Route 214 would have to be relocated up the mountain onto state lands that are designate wilderness within the Catskill Park.

This project has a limited benefit for the general public. It will only generate a net 800 mw to be offered to the New York electrical grid. Yet the project imposes a large negative impact on local property owners in terms of long term flood risk and risk to drinking water supply.

