

Monica B Harrington, Olivebridge, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number:
P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to comment on the application by Premium Energy Holdings for a preliminary permit to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains: Ashokan PSP P-15056. I urge FERC to decline this request. Sustainable energy is important to me, but this plan on the whole is not sustainable for the local environment, economy and community. The proposed project will have many negative impacts, but I will focus on three of them.

1. The proposed project area is within the protected Catskill Forest Preserve. This is Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis, which – according to the DOE’s Hydropower Vision – should be avoided for development. The 700,000-acre Preserve comprises unique continuous wildlife habitat (and falls within an Audubon Important Bird Area) and pristine forest (top 1% in the region according to the New York State Forest Condition Index). The impacts of the proposed project are greater than Premium Energy is claiming, because this is not a closed-loop system as they represent, but an add-on to an open system. (This also means the proposal is not eligible for streamlined FERC approval.) Disruption of this valuable habitat must be prevented, yet the proposed project will irreparably damage the ecology of the area by causing rapid fluctuations in water levels and continuous disturbance of sediments – not to mention the additional harm caused by the construction/development processes themselves.

2. The proposed project will negatively impact tourism and those who work in the $1.6-billion industry – roughly 20,000 or 17% of jobs - in an area already hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Premium Energy’s project will restrict access to hiking, fishing, skiing, and other forms of recreation and decrease the natural beauty, stifling tourism in the region, which has already been reduced by the coronavirus pandemic. This could cause many local businesses to close permanently.

3. The proposed project will further damage the economy and community by eliminating homes, in addition to jobs. Adding a reservoir site in the Catskill Forest Preserve will require the seizing of homes and private property via eminent domain. These displaced residents will have a hard time securing new housing, given the shortage of housing – especially affordable housing – in Ulster County. 

We need sustainable energy, but not at the expense of sustainable environments, economies and communities. I hope Premium Energy will be able to find a suitable alternative location for their pumped storage project — where construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness and natural resources, devastate local economies, and displace vulnerable communities.

Please understand the true impacts of Premium Energy’s proposed project and deny their preliminary permit for the Ashokan PSP P-15056.

Thank you,
Monica Harrington

