

Lisa Gizzarelli-Drago, Ulster Park, NY.
Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing to urge you to decline this proposal. While renewal energy storage is important, this is NOT the appropriate location.  

This land is part of the Catskill Forest Preserve and is deemed forever wild in the NYS constitution.  There is so little forever protected land left; it is imperative to keep it protected.  This alone, should be reason enough to not allow this project to be approved here.

This project will greatly affect the ecology of the streams that feed these proposed reservoirs.  The increased turbidity and highly fluctuating water levels from pumped storage will cause the trout population to decline and likely disappear.  Trout rely on cold/deep, clear water to survive.  Their habitat will be ruined and this will affect the entire food web.  Trout fishing is also a major source of income for the towns along the Esopus Creek.  This would devastate a major part of their economy.      

This project proposes to use the Ashokan Reservoir as its lower basin.  This is drinking water for NYC residents.  Pumped storage will increase the turbidity in the reservoir, making it impossible to remain the largest unfiltered reservoir in the country.  This is irresponsible and reckless to allow this to happen to such a vital resource for the largest urban population in the US.  

Renewable energy solutions should work in harmony with the environment.  They should not decrease the quality of an ecosystem. This project is claiming to be a 'closed loop' project, when actually, it is an add-on project. This add-on project is proposing to use an existing drinking water reservoir for the nation's largest city as its lower basin.  This is a high risk project that will be detrimental to this vital resource and to the ecology of the area.  Premium Energy Holding, LLC is lying about this being a 'closed loop' project to get a quick approval.  They are NOT to be trusted.   

I hope you carefully take these points into consideration and do NOT allow this proposal to move forward.  Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Thank you,
Lisa Gizzarelli-Drago   


