

Calandra Cruickshank, Big Indian, NY.
Calandra Cruickshank 
58 Hatchery Hollow Rd.
Big Indian, NY 12410
calandralila@gmail.com

Regarding: Docket Number P-15056-000

To Whom It May Concern:

I write to formally submit that I am against Premium Energy Holdings, LLC’s proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. 

The 700,000 acre Catskills Forest Preserve was created in 1885 in Ulster County. Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” This project would clearly go against this intent and simultaneously endanger forest around the proposed sites that ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. 

All proposed reservoirs fall within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Sanctuary. As a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” According to the Dept. of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” Additionally, according to The Catskill Park: Inside the Blue Line, changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum. 

As someone who lives on a former trout hatchery in the Catskills, established by my great-great-grandfather, I also am concerned about the impacts on stream ecology. Pumped storage upper reservoirs are subject to rapid fluctuations of water which wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats. Altering the sediment regime in tributaries to the Esopus will alter the sediment regime in the Esopus, one of the Catskills’ most vital trout waters and a critical part of the NYC water supply. Valuable trout breeding habitat would be lost and there could be significant impacts to the NYC water supply. According to the DEP, this area provides 40% of NYC’s water, a water supply that provides 1 billion gallons a day to 9.5 million people. 

In summary, this project does not represent the innovation that the Department of Energy would want. I urge you to stand against this project and shut it down. 

Sincerely, 
Calandra Cruickshank




