

Susan J McClellan, Barnet, VT.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

As a frequent visitor to the Catskill Mountains, I'm writing to object to the flawed and dishonest proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant there. I strongly urge FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

Premium Energy is lying: Their proposal does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Premium claims that this project is “closed-loop.” But it is actually an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. This is extremely risky, especially when the lower reservoir is a vital source of drinking water for New York. We cannot trust a company that would lie in their proposal simply for the advantage of being fast-tracked for approval.

The long-protected forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be endangered. Article XIV of the NYS Constitution clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” It would be criminal to destroy this sacred and wonderfully preserved land, a habitat for countless important and endangered species. And this flawed project would set a horrible precedent, dooming protected lands across the country.

On a personal note, I am deeply saddened because I am planning to buy a home in the Catskills to retire to in the next year or so. But I would not want to see what the region looks like if such a devastating project is allowed to go through. The damage would be enormous to the natural environment (supposedly protected for eternity!) as well as to tourism, jobs, and many unique communities. Not to mention that 100 years ago, the region already endured something much like this. Valleys were flooded, homes and entire towns destroyed and relocated, and livelihoods ruined. It is NOT OK to do this again, especially when the company is lying – seriously  misrepresenting their plan simply to gain a preliminary permit. Then they have their foot in the door and endanger what is "forever protected."

Premium Energy should look for a more suitable location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources. Transition to renewable green-energy sources must not come at the cost of environmental and community devastation.

Please do the right thing and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Susan McClellan 

