

Jonathan Burn, Chichester, NY.
April 3, 2021

Jonathan Burn
10 Park Road
Chichester
New York, 12416


Dear Sirs:

FERC Ref: Premium Energy Holdings: P-15056

As a resident of Chichester NY in the Catskills, not far from the Ashokan Reservoir, I have reviewed what information is currently available on the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings  (P-15056) to build a Pumped Storage Hydropower project in the Catskills Forest Preserve.  This proposal appears to be deficient in a number of crucial ways.  

Firstly, it is proposed to build this within the boundaries of the Catskill Forest Preserve.  This represents over 700,000 acres of contiguous highly preserved land, in existence for over 135 years, and considered to be in the top 1% of New York State’s forest habitats.  Importantly, as a State Forest Preserve this is considered to be Status 1 land by the USGS and, according to the Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision report, Status 1 lands are areas to be avoided for development.  Premium Energy’s proposals demonstrate no awareness of this and in fact appear completely contradictory to the objectives of the Department of Energy.

Secondly, Premium Energy’s proposal describes the project as a Closed Loop System, which it clearly is not.  The underlying concept of the pumped storage facility uses the Ashokan Reservoir as the lower basin, and the Ashokan is a reservoir with an inflow from the Esopus creek and other surrounding water sources, and an outflow into the New York City water system.  I understand that Department of Energy is a supporter of Closed Loop projects on the basis of their reduced environment impact.  This proposal should not be considered as such, and in fact the misrepresentation on the part of Premium Energy calls into question both their capabilities and their motivations.

Lastly, and as noted above, the Ashokan forms part of the New York City water supply, and in fact is the pivotal reservoir in that system, with over 40% of New York City’s water flowing through it.  The Catskill/Delaware Watershed and the network of reservoirs and rivers it contains, represent the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, supplying a billion gallons a day to over 9 million people.  The Ashokan provides a crucial sediment settling basin within this system, allowing sediment flowing downstream to settle in the western portion of the reservoir, where Premium Energy propose to build their Open Loop project, prior to flowing to the eastern portion of the reservoir and hence via aqueducts directly from there to New York City.  The rapid flow of water and significant water level changes inherent in a pumped storage hydropower plant would have a hugely detrimental impact on the reservoir’s primary purpose of water supply and on the turbidity of the water provided to over 9 million people.

By proposing to build this Open Loop Hydropower facility in a State Forest Preserve and the New York City Watershed, and significantly impacting a critical part of the New York City water system, Premium Energy have demonstrated a fundamental lack of understanding of the environment in which they propose to build.  This proposal should be rejected at this stage and not allowed to proceed.

Sincerely,

Jonathan Burn 



