

Leslie Fleischman, HIGH FALLS, NY.
I am writing to oppose the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Facility submitted by Premium Energy Holdings. Docket #P-15056:000.

Pumped storage is a flawed solution that uses more power than it stores,  is expensive, and damages the area’s ecology with the rapid changes in water level in the upper reservoir. 

The project is proposed within the Catskills Forest Preserve, with impacts on formally protected and ecologically valuable land. The U.S. Department of Energy itself has recognized that development on such lands should be avoided. 

The movement of water in pumped storage can affect the sediment regime and stream ecology. This is of heightened concern, since excessive sediment is already a major issue affecting the Ashokan Reservoir and the quality of NYC’s unfiltered drinking water. The project would likely affect the 9.5 million residents of New York City and many Hudson Valley communities that rely on its drinking water. It also has significant implications on the health of the Esopus Creek and the communities on its banks, and to the communities that draw drinking water from the Hudson River.

Given the areas appeal to tourism due to its pristine wilderness areas it seems counter to rational thought to allow such destruction to our area that would not appear to create excess power to alleviate the need for energy, instead wasting our valuable natural resources for little assistance in energy needs. There are better ways to create clean energy without trading our Catskill Forest Preserve for another manmade plant that will affect everything for miles around it. This is not the time to take apart more of nature but more the time to learn to live in harmony with nature and live within the perfect balance rather than destroy it. 

The Ashokan Reservoir, NYC watershed, and the Catskill Forest Preserve are not the right place for a pumped storage project.

I sincerely hope that these comments will be taken into consideration as we are the people who live here and enjoy the natural resources provided by the Catskill Forest Preserve. 

Thank you for your consideration,
Leslie Fleischman
High Falls NY 12440



