

Charles Gadol, Highland, NY.
My name is Charles Gadol, MD.  I reside at 555 Plutarch Rd, Highland, NY, 12528.  I am writing in opposition to the preliminary permit application of Premium Energy Holdings, LLC, docket # P-15056 for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project in Ulster County, NY.
I am currently a staff pathologist for Westchester Medical Center working at Health Alliance in Kingston, NY, and as medical director of the laboratory at Margaretville Hospital, an acute care access hospital close to the project area.  Also, I serve on the board and as a trail maintainer for the New York New Jersey Trail Conference.  The Trail Conference is a 501(3)(c) organization of staff and volunteers which maintains and develops over 2100 miles of trails between and including New Jersey and the Catskill Mountains.  Additionally, I am co-owner of wtf racing, LLC, which organizes and directs two popular long distance trail races in the Catskills; one is a 54 mile long race from Windham to Phoenicia, and the other is a trail marathon in the Slide Mountain Wilderness Area.  These races could become impossible if dams proposed as alternatives one and two are completed.
The dam proposed as alternative #1 creating Stony Clove Reservoir would destroy residences in Lanesville and interrupt/divide Rte 214, which is the major road connecting the northern Catskills, the town of Hunter, and Rte 23A with Phoenicia, and a major east/west highway, Rte 28.  Rte 214 traverses a deep gorge in the mountains with steep slopes on either side of the roadway.  Interruption and destruction of Rte 214 would prevent access to the NYS-DEC Devil's Tombstone campground and to trails in this area, especially including the famous and popular Devil's Path.  Residents in this area routinely use Rte 214 to get to shopping in Hunter.  Hunter and Belleayre ski centers are also accessed by Rte 214.  Bypassing Rte 214 using other roads requires driving many extra miles along roads which can be closed during winter and have been recently closed due to flood damage.
The dam proposed as alternative #2 creating Woodland Reservoir would destroy numerous residences in the Woodland area, inundating and interrupting Woodland Valley Rd., a dead end road, and blocking access to additional homes and property.  Woodland Valley Rd. leads to a very popular NYS-DEC campground at its terminus.  This campground area has at least two very popular and heavily used trailheads accessing trails in the Burroughs Range as well as the Long Path hiking trail, and trails in the Giant Ledge-Panther Mountains.
Alternative #3 creating the Wittenberg Reservoir would close Moonhaw Rd, another dead end road, destroying and isolating multiple residences.  Although no official trails begin in this area, the end of Moonhaw Rd. is used for backcountry access to several high peaks which see a lot of foot traffic (Friday, Balsam Cap, Lone and Rocky Mountains).
The areas impacted by the proposed alternative dam sites, and indeed the entire Catskill area, are heavily dependent on tourism.  Tourism has increased dramatically in recent years and especially during the pandemic.  Closure of major roads and disruption of trailhead access caused by the proposed dams and reservoirs would significantly impact tourism prospects and could be a death blow to a traditionally economically depressed area.  The disruption and unsightliness caused by construction of tunnels and transmission lines would also be damaging to tourism.  Loss of homes and livelihoods for area residents would also be disastrous.
The need for increased power and generating capacity in the Hudson Valley has not been demonstrated.  This area includes lands preserved as wilderness and wild forest, a widely dispersed population with small towns and cities, some light industry, and a strong agricultural component to the local economy.  Any new energy challenges should be met by renewable energy sources according to the recently passed NY State Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act.
As described earlier, closure of either Rte 214 or Woodland Valley Rd. would be detrimental to the trail races that I operate, which are permitted by NYS-DEC, preventing travel to and access to different parts of the race courses.  This could especially present issues regarding safety and communications, as well as providing aid to participants.  These races bring several hundred people into the area annually, producing additional benefit to the local economy.
In conclusion, I urge you to deny the preliminary permit application of Premium Energy Holdings, for all the reasons I have presented.  Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this application.

