

Seth Townsend, Phoenicia, NY.
Docket number P-15056-000
My family and I are directly impacted by the proposal, and are strongly opposed to it (both as primary residents in Phoenicia, and as property owners in NYC).  We have carefully reviewed the proposal and have the following concerns with the proposal: 
1)	Environmental
a.	Negative impact on wildlife (fish, birds, deer, bobcats, bears, etc) 
b.	Disruption of underground oil, propane, gas tanks (locations may not be known or these may be inadequately permitted).  The proposal would directly lead to risk of these flooding the supply
c.	Previous industrial sites that are in the flood zone and not documented 
d.	Water quality in NYC – increased risk to requiring filtration which would make the proposal economically non-viable
2)	Merits of the proposal 
a.	Not sufficient detail to understand approach or merits of proposal; risks are not defined, and not captured in the proposal 
b.	Mathematical errors in their proposal are either intentional or careless – the proposal should be submitted and be internally consistent and accurate 
c.	Risk of drought increased (surface areas of reservoir and moving water daily would significantly reduce the water available in the reservoir) – it is not a closed system.  This significantly increases risk of a water outage and has direct impacts on other reservoirs 
d.	Team is not qualified to execute on this type of project – inadequate track record of execution for projects of this magnitude
e.	Inadequate reserve funds available – similar proposals have required 10-20x of the project cost held in cash in a reserve fund to ensure requirements met and no damages
f.	Better proposals elsewhere (e.g., lithium battery) that are more cost effective, efficient; old technology is used for the proposal – this is not efficient and not effective 
g.	Proposal should include DEC / DEP / Ulster County Healthy and Safety representatives to oversee all activity (in person monitoring)  
h.	Property value has significantly increased in last 5 years (~2x value) and this is not accounted for in financial calculations of value 
3)	Legality of the approach 
a.	Violation of 10th Amendment in US constitution and NY state constitution 
b.	California company without alien company registration in NYS or Ulster County 
c.	Federal laws violation including Endangered Species Act and FEMA regulations
d.	State Laws violation including Fish & Wildlife and DEC / DEP regulations  
e.	Ulster County lacks legal authority to grant local permit and exposes both members of the community and individuals who sign permits to civil and criminal penalties 
f.	This is not in the public interest due to the inefficiency in the approach and other more favorable options – local and federal tax incentives cannot be used to justify a seizure of property that is not in the community interest 
4)	Impact on the community
a.	Impact of data requests / research on the Town Hall staff and inability to meet other requests for permitting (lack of town resources) 
b.	Impact to fishing / hunting / camping which is currently used in the area 
c.	History of disrupted / displaced individuals – there are not adequate housing supplies available in the area to support displaced families (and also not available construction workers to build new houses) 
d.	Graves in the local area that would be disturbed  
e.	The impacted community extends well beyond the flood zone and will impact erosion along the waterway as well ad impact community / property value and potential uses 
f.	Additional risk to COVID exposure by the community, which is in violation of current CDC guidelines as these are non-essential business activities 


