

Robert Cornett, Mount Tremper, NY.
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Dear Ms. Bose,

I am writing in response to the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings (PEH) to build a hydroelectric power plant in the Catskill Forest Preserve area of New York state. This project would be absolutely devastating to the environment, disruptive to local communities and have high risk to the purity of NY City’s drinking water.  I along with many other individuals, organizations and town councils in this area urge you to decline PEH’s request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. There has been a thorough review of the PEH proposal by environmental and energy consultants who have confirmed that this is not a suitable location for a pumped storage facility.

The proposal is in violation of Article XIV of the NY State Constitution which has guaranteed that the Catskill Forest Preserve “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands and shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private. The project would cause significant destruction to the forest and lands around the proposed sites and environmental devastation due to the interconnectedness of the Ashokan watershed and its tributaries. A Pumped storage facility will wreak havoc on nearby stream ecology and land habitats. It will affect wildlife and alter sediment regimes in connected tributaries including the Esopus Creek, near my property which  feeds into the Ashokan Reservoir which supplies over 40% of NY City’s water supply and is a vital trout breeding stream. Water fluctuations caused by this project would increase turbidity within the Ashokan Reservoir and its watershed threatening the water supply to NY City and causing issues in nearby communities.

Any of the proposed upper reservoir sites in the PEH proposal would also be damaging to local communities and property owners due to the seizing of homes and property via eminent domain. This will be a repeat of the devastating displacement of people and communities 100 years ago when the Ashokan was constructed.

Due to these serious environmental and community impacts It would be totally reckless of FERC to approve this preliminary permit request.  PEH should be directed to look for more suitable and less destructive locations for this kind of project.

Sincerely,

Robert Cornett
1298 Wittenberg Road
Mt. Tremper, NY 12457
rcornett@maine.rr.com
Phone: 207-838-2168


