

Renee Smith, Killingworth, CT.
I am writing in opposition to Premium Energy’s proposal to build an upper reservoir to the Ashokan Reservoir in the Catskill Forest Preserve.  
I urge FERC to REJECT the application for a feasibility study for this proposed project.  The proposed locations for this project make no sense for the following reasons:

1.	First, and most important, it would be a long, expensive legal battle because the proposal is for a project inside the boundaries of the Catskill Forest Preserve.  In 1885 a law was passed by the NY State Congress which established the Catskill Forest Preserve. From the beginning this land was protected by the State constitution as ‘Forever Wild’ land, never to be subjected to development or extraction of natural resources.   ARTICLE XIV Section 1 of the Constitution begins as follows:  “The lands of the state, now owned or hereafter acquired, constituting the forest preserve as now fixed by law, shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private”.  Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature, then submitted to the public in a referendum.  As of 1999, more than 2000 amendments had been proposed. Only 29 made it to the referendum stage, and 20 of those passed. 

2.	This proposal is for an ADD-ON OPEN-LOOP system.  According to the Department of Energy’s own document, Pumped Storage Hydropower FAST Commissioning Technical Analysis, June 2020, “The closed-loop configuration is being favored by regulators and developers alike because it minimizes environmental impacts on watershed ecosystems and provides unconstrained flexibility to provide grid benefits.”  It also states, “Open-loop projects are often subject to lengthy environmental reviews and long-term monitoring to ensure the connection to a naturally flowing water feature produces no significant environmental impact to the local aquatic ecosystem.”

3.	The area in question qualifies as Status 1 under the USGS Gap Analysis Project.  Meaning, “An area having permanent protection from conversion of natural land cover and a mandated management plan in operation to maintain a natural state within which disturbance events (of natural type, frequency, intensity, and legacy) are allowed to proceed without interference or are mimicked through management.  Examples of Status 1: National Parks, Wilderness Areas.” It is also my understanding that the proposed sites are a Status 1 area according to the USGS Gap Analysis, and that DoE prefers to avoid projects that are on Status 1 land.

Certainly there are numerous other reasons why I personally object to this project, as I have a home in West Shokan built by my great-grandfather.  I fully understand the need for alternative energy and to get away from fossil fuels.  This is one reason why I am a strong supporter of nuclear power.  While hydro pump projects can also be an important part of the energy storage puzzle, the sites in Premium Energy’s proposal make no sense whatsoever.

Thank you for reading and acknowledging my comments.

Renee Smith



