

Kevin Boyer, West Shokan, NY.
My name is Kevin Boyer and I have been educating myself about the specifics of the “Ashokan Pumped Storage Project,” proposed by Premium Energy – FERC project number P-15056-000 – which I strongly oppose.  

As a resident of the immediate area that would be affected, I’ve quickly learned several key things. A proposal and project such as this has huge legal ramifications at many levels, knowing that New York State’s objection to such development will cause this to be tied up in legal wrangling for many years. This highly preserved land has been so since 1885, when the NYS Constitution declared this 700K acres of continuous wildlife habitat of Catskills forest be “forever kept as wild.” As a State Forest Preserve the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program – and the DEP has said land areas designated as Status 1 or 2 will be “avoided for development.” This alone should be enough to halt this proposal immediately.  However, if this proposal did in fact get any traction, it would have to be passed by a constitutional amendment by the NYS Constitution, voted on by two consecutive sessions in state legislature and then submitted to the public for referendum. I’ve learned that this is really difficult to do – and Premium Energy seems to be completely unware they are proposing a project in such a protected environment.  (As you likely know, since 1999 there have been 2000 proposals and only 20 have passed.) 

These highly preserved state lands are kept so for many important ecological reasons, perhaps most notably the important bird and fish wildlife habitats that would be lost if such a project were to move forward. The surrounding Catskill’s area and Ashokan Reservoir make up the largest unfiltered drinking supply in the nation – is that not important?  A hydroelectric plant will impact the water’s turbidity and increase stream sediment that runs into the reservoir – affecting the water’s purity and in essence altering a clean source that currently provides 40% of New York City’s drinking water (feeding 9.5 million people). 

Equally as important to note, this proposal by Premium Energy is not factual. This proposal is NOT for a closed-loop project, it is an add-on project since an upper reservoir would be added on to a lower reservoir – so this proposal is, in fact, deficient and untrue. Premium Energy does not deserve the special consideration FERC may give to closed-loop projects. 

The scope of such a project will literally be life altering for both humans and animals that would be displaced, not to mention the impact it would have on the local tourism economy, which continues to grow, reliant on the natural beauty of this region. In 2019 Ulster County represented over 40% of that market. 

There are countless reasons this is a bad idea and I will continue to research and fight to stop this proposal from going further.  This proposed project cannot happen. 

Thank you.
Kevin Boyer


