

Mary Mistler, HURLEY, NY.
Ms. Bose,  I am writing to oppose the application of Premium Energy Holdings for construction of a pumped storage facility on the Ashokan Reservoir and lands in the Ulster County Catskill region. This land is part of the Catskill Park Forest Preserve, established in 1885, and enshrined in the New York State Constitution, to be held “forever wild,” and as such, is extremely environmentally sensitive, rated as Status 1 in the USGS Gap Analysis Program. The proposed construction should therefore, according to FERC’s guidelines, be prohibited on these lands. 
Further, the application by Premium Energy is inaccurate in that the proposed project is not a “Closed Loop” system as the application indicates. The basins of the Ashokan Reservoir feed into the Esopus Creek which continues on to the Hudson River, making it an “Open Loop” or “add-on” system. 
It is also unclear how the Reservoir, part of a public water supply system, can be used in such a project. Does this water supply not belong to the taxpayers of New York? Construction of this proposed pumped storage plant, using water pumped from the Reservoir’s basin, disturbing all the sediment at bottom, would create increased turbidity in the water supply, disturbing the downstream ecology.  And during the lengthy construction period of such a large project as this, with its tunnels, reservoir and dam, there would certainly be runoff of pollutants into the watershed. These disturbances might endanger the water quality and require the City to build an enormously expensive filtration system. And it is unclear what effect the constant pumping in and out of water might have on the existing dams on the Ashokan Reservoir, constructed in 1907-1915.  A failure of these dams would be catastrophic, and impossible for any company to mitigate or remedy.
In terms of the local history, in 1907, many families lost their lands and farms in the Esopus valley and there is still lingering feeling in the residents about what was done here. Perhaps Premium Energy, based in California, is not aware of this history and does not understand that the proposal to repeat history in flooding another valley in this area would be extremely controversial. 
I am, therefore, requesting that this proposed project application be denied by the Federal Energy Regulation Commission in the interests of the people of New York. 
Thank you for your consideration.



