

Marianne Berry, Olivebridge, NY.
I am writing to urge FERC to reject the proposal (Docket # 15056-0000) submitted by Premium Energy for a pumped-storage hydroplant to be constructed in the Catskill Forest Preserve.

 While the goal of increasing the use of renewable energy is an important one, constructing a pumped storage plant and dam within this highly preserved and legally protected forestland and watershed is manifestly contrary to the public good. 

    The Department of Energy has publicly stated that “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 

    Premium Energy’s proposal is flawed in that it purports to describe a closed-loop system, whereas it is clearly an add-on utilizing, as its lower reservoir, the Ashokan reservoir, itself an engineering marvel of enormous historical and economic significance. 

    Because of the importance of the Ashokan Reservoir and the surrounding forest preserve, it is legally protected by Article XIV of the New York State Constitution: “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands, [and] shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  The Ashokan reservoir was built, almost exactly a century ago, by means of eminent domain and the displacement of an entire community of towns and farms. This constitutional promise of protection must be kept. 

    There is widespread community opposition to this plan, among not only residents but also visitors to the Preserve, many of them from New York City and other urban areas who value the chance to enjoy unspoiled wilderness within a few hours’ drive. Community groups and organizations across the political spectrum are united in their determination to protect this preserve, as their State Constitution has promised them it would. 

I urge the commission to consider these and other reasons raised by public commentary and deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056. 

Thank you, 

Marianne Berry 

