

Andrea Shallcross, Chichester, NY.
April 3, 2021

Andrea Shallcross
10 Park Road
Chichester
New York, 12416

FERC Ref: Premium Energy Holdings (P-15056)

Dear Sirs:

As a resident of Chichester NY, I have reviewed the proposal by Premium Energy Holdings (P-15056) to build a large dam, reservoir, turbine and tunnels (collectively “dam”) in the Catskills Forest Preserve.  

I want to draw attention to the fact that the each of the proposed sites for the dam are located on lands that, under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, are designated to be “kept as wild forest lands.” The Article goes on to say that: “They shall not be leased, sold, exchanged or be taken by any corporation, public or private”.  Changes to land management in the State Forest Preserves must be passed by constitutional amendment, voted on by two consecutive sessions in the state legislature and then submitted to the public in a referendum. In order to avoid that, and for this plan to go forward in any manner, FERC would have to force the state of New York to condemn state land.  A case about this very matter is currently under review by the Supreme Court. [PennEast Pipeline Co. v New Jersey]. The primary issue of the case being: 

Whether the Natural Gas Act delegates to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission certificate-holders the authority to exercise the federal government’s eminent-domain power to condemn land in which a state claims an interest

In addition to the protections afforded by the state constitution, the areas slated for possible location of the dam also comprise the catchment area for the New York City water supply (supplying approximately 1 billion gallons of water a day for use by 9M New York City residents) and are within the New York City Watershed. Such a massive construction project in this area would disrupt that water supply in many significant ways.

Additionally, as a State Forest Preserve, the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under USGS “Gap Analysis” Program.  According to the Department of Energy’s Hydropower Vision, Status 1 lands are areas to be avoided for development.

Considering all of the above, Premium Energy Holdings’ failure in its proposal to indicate the Status 1 designation of the land selected for development, or that all of the selected possible sites for the dam are located within the catchment area for the New York City water supply, suggests both poor research and a profound ignorance of the actual nature of the land chosen for development.  As such, it seems that allowing this project – posited as it is on such a deficient understanding of the status of the land per the State constitution – a preliminary license would be ill-advised since any actual construction in the cited areas would be subject to strong and well-founded challenges and, almost certainly, to strong legal challenges not least by the State and by New York City.  Based on the foregoing facts, I strongly contend that this project should be disallowed at the earliest opportunity.

Sincerely, 

Andrea Shallcross


