

Grace Patschke, Shokan, NY.
To: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)

From: Grace Patschke, 41 Hanzel Rd., Shokan, NY 12481
            (845) 657-9547           gmpatschke@gmail.com

Date: March 27, 2021

Re: Ashokan Pumped Storage Project

I am officially registering my comments and concerns with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC with regard to the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. I have been a resident of Olive for the past 24 years. I was blind sighted by the proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. I have huge concerns with this project proceeding in this beautiful and eco sensitive location. This project would be unquestionably detrimental to this area. The following is a partial list of how this area, its residents, wildlife and environment would be compromised:
 
Environment: This beautiful area has seen a surge in the once endangered Bald Eagle, as well as recent sightings of the Red Crossed Bill. In addition to these beautiful birds there are a huge number of land and aquatic animals that would be gravely impacted by this project. Destroying forests for this project would impact wildlife. Creating dams would impact fish, all forms of aquatic life as well as destroying forests, pastures, fields and streams, and all forms of plant and animal life that exist in those natural environments. How will fish migrate between all the reservoirs unharmed? The level of the environmental impact is astronomical. And the damage done could never be reversed.

Well water: People in this area have well water. This type of massive construction both above and below ground can have a catastrophic negative impact on local well water. Just the recent construction on Rt. 28 has turned the Ashokan Reservoir brown for months. Often, sediments and toxins are not visible and could cause harm to those drinking the water as well as the surrounding wildlife. When our neighbor dug their own well on new construction, our well water turned brown for months.
Will this construction impact the water table? Could wells run dry? And what contaminants will be introduced into the water supply? It is not worth the risk to thousands of residences.

Homeowners: Those families that would be displaced by this project would face incredible and possibly insurmountable difficulties. Even if the families are reimbursed for their homes. The unique recent surge of people from New York City relocating to our area, due to COVID, is larger than any we have ever experienced. Homes have hugely increased in their selling price. People purchasing homes are paying with cash, driving the real estate market up. Availability of homes to purchase is very low if nonexistent in the most desired areas. The people having to relocate would not be able to find compatible homes in this market, leaving them at a huge loss both financially and emotionally.

Would solar or wind be more economically viable?

How much co2 and methane is projected to be produced?

Will a warning system be in place in case of a dam collapse?

https://qz.com/797380/reservoirs-methane-emissions-climate-change/



This beautiful area is a natural treasure and moving ahead with the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project will destroy its beauty, permanently scar the environment as well as have devastating impacts on the people, animals, and plant life that exist here on these precious lands. I stand firmly against this project!



