

Lisa Starger, Mt. Tremper, NY.

Kimberly D. Bose
FERC
888 First St. NE Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426

Dear Ms. Bose,

While I am a fervent supporter of projects that contribute to our transition to renewable energy and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, there are multiple reasons why Premium Energy Holdings Ashokan Pumped Storage Project is the wrong project in the wrong place.

While closed-loop projects are considered to have less environmental impact and are eligible for streamlined FERC approval, this project is not, as Premium has erroneously represented it, a closed-loop project but, in fact, an add-on project which is subject to a higher level of scrutiny.

In addition, all of Premium’s proposed reservoir sites are in the Catskills Forest Preserve. Under the New York State constitution these lands “shall be forever kept as wild...not leased, sold, exchanged, or be taken by any corporation...” Under the Dept. of Energy’s own guidelines, Status 1 land, as the Preserve has been designated by them, should be “avoided for development.” Our wild lands are our children’s irreplaceable heritage and the protection of the purity of our waterways. Damage done by development cannot be undone.

It is known that the rapid fluctuations of water resulting from this project will wreak havoc on both aquatic and land habitats, alter the sediment regime in the Esopus aggravating an already problematic turbidity problem, affect New York City’s water supply, and destroy priceless trout breeding habitat.

Alternate energy technologies are rapidly being developed and improved but Premium Energy’s planned project is ill conceived and attains nowhere near the efficiency desirable in a sustainable energy source because of its need to use energy to make energy. It is destined to become, in time, another costly white elephant blighting the landscape like the decommissioned nuclear power plants that, not so long ago, also seemed like a good idea.

Sincerely,
Lisa Starger
1298 Wittenberg Rd.
Mt. Tremper, NY 12457


