

Andrea Stanley, Chichester, NY.
docket number P-15056-000

I am a resident and homeowner in Chichester NY, Ulster County. I am unequivocally opposed to the proposed hydropower project currently under review by FERC (docket number P-15056).

We moved this area in 2007 primarily because of its astounding beauty and the fact that at our doorstep are all the amazing flora and fauna of the Catskills forest. 

While I am in support of renewable and sustainable energy sources and recognize that sometimes there is a “greater good” with some energy projects-- this is not one of them. 

 The proposed project would have a detrimental effect on the ecology of the Catskills Forest Preserve (established in 1885) and on the wellbeing of the flora and fauna in this habitat, including the Ashokan Reservoir and larger New York City Watershed system.
Premium Energy Holding’s claim that it will build an “enclosed loop” system is false; closer study indicates their proposal is actually an “open loop” system. The environmental and aquatic impact of such an open loop system would be significant and damaging. 
The company also falsely states that the project will take place outside the boundaries of the protected Catskills Preserve. Closer study indicates that its proposed sites are actually located squarely within the Catskills Forest Preserve. This area is protected under Article XIV of the New York State Constitution, which deems the lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” Constitutional amendment is required for any change in the management of State Forest Preserves. This process involves both state legislative approval and a public referendum; it is otherwise unlawful and unconstitutional. 
As a State Forest Preserve the Catskills are considered Status 1 land under the USGS Gap Analysis Program. The US Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision report states that, “areas with formal protections designated as Status 1 or 2 under the USGS Gap Analysis Program are avoided for development.” 
I believe the protected status of the Catskills Forest Preserve; the misleading nature of Premium Energy Holding’s proposal; and the Department of Energy’s mandate to avoid Status 1 land are all reasons to disqualify Premium Energy Holdings from receiving a preliminary permit. 

Sincerely,

Andrea Stanley


