

Peter McKnight, West Hurley, NY.
To:

Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

Dear Ms. Bose,

There is deeply flawed proposal by Premium Energy Holdings to build a hydroelectric power plant in New York’s Catskill Mountains. 

I'm strongly urging FERC to decline their request for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056, as it would be devastating to the environment, highly disruptive to local communities, and risky for the purity of NYC’s drinking water.

Normally I would be encouraged by a pumped storage project to help our country’s transition to renewable energy. However the forests, streams, and wildlife of Catskill Forest Preserve must not be sacrificed in the process. 

Under Article XIV of the NYS Constitution, it is clearly guaranteed that these lands “shall be forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.” 

The Preserve currently contains 700,000 acres of continuous wildlife habitat, and the forest around the proposed sites ranks among the top 1% of forest habitats region-wide, according to the New York State Forest Condition Index. 

One negative effect is the alteration of the sediment regime in connected tributaries, which has a cascading effect. The Ashokan Pumped Storage Project would ultimately affect the sediment regime in the Esopus Creek, which is one of the Catskills’ most vital trout breeding waters, and one of the key creeks feeding into the Ashokan Reservoir, which supplies 40% of NYC’s water supply, serving 1 billion gallons of water a day to 9.5 million people. 

Further, Premium Energy’s proposal is not a closed-loop system as they claim—it is in fact an “add-on,” and the water fluctuations would no doubt increase turbidity within the Ashokan and its watershed. Taking all this into account, it would be reckless to allow a project to proceed that would threaten such a valuable asset as the Ashokan Reservoir, which is the largest unfiltered water supply in the nation, and represents over $1.7 billion of investments since the 1990s alone.

It should also be pointed out that this proposal does not even represent the kind of innovation that the Department of Energy wants to see. Closed-loop pumped storage projects have smaller environmental impacts than those that make use of existing watersheds, and are thus eligible for streamlined FERC approval. So while Premium is claiming this project to be “closed-loop”, their project actually is an “add-on,” using an existing body of water as a lower reservoir. 

I urge Premium Energy to find a suitable alternative location for a pumped storage project—one where the construction and operation will not destroy protected wilderness, displace vulnerable communities, and threaten incredibly important natural resources.

And I urge you to deny Premium Energy’s proposal for a preliminary permit for the Ashokan Pumped Storage Project P-15056.

Sincerely,

Peter McKnight

