

Matt Kobussen, Phoenicia, NY.
In Reference to: FERC Project and Subdocket Number: P-15056:000

My wife and I moved to the Woodland Valley as full-time residents in March 2020. The pandemic brought added challenges to living in New York City and we found ourselves with limited options to turn.


We bought our cabin in the protected Catskill Forest Preserve a year earlier to enjoy one of the most natural, ecologically significant areas in all of New York State. Its historical significance to trout fishing, fresh natural water and camping all create an ecosystem that is both a wonderful place to live, but it also attracts a growing number of tourists from throughout New York and surrounding states to the Woodland Valley area.


Since moving permanently to the area, it’s become even more clear how important the tourism is to maintaining local businesses and creating jobs. People travel from hours away to explore the trail heads accessible from the Woodland Valley campground, which was developed in the 1930s and is one of New York’s oldest camp sites. More than 5,000 people each year come to this area for the natural beauty and hiking trail experience, which then leads them to the surrounding businesses, restaurants, coffee shops, hotels, gift and apparel stores, and more.


As a $1.6 billion dollar industry in the Catskill region, it creates close to 9,000 jobs in the Ulster County area alone. Unemployment rates are also on the decline with more people fleeing New York City for space and more time outdoors. In April 2020, at the very beginning of the pandemic and a pivotal point in the year for tourism uptick, the unemployment rate rose to 14.6% - up from 4.2% just two months prior. Since then, the unemployment rate has fallen to 6.8% in February 2021. With the introduction of this power plant and the decrease in accessible trails, fishing and other outdoor activities, unemployment rates can only spike again.


While we understand that new developments of all types may support the public good—the proposed pumped-storage hydro plant in Woodland Valley brings vastly more negative consequences than benefits.


More specifically, my wife and I appreciate the global energy transition taking place and renewable power is an important component of lessening our dependence on fossil fuels. But this hydro plant is not in line with the preference of the Department of Energy and it would require more energy to operate than it would ultimately create from pumping water to the upper reservoir and back down again. This effectively feels like a greenwashing exercise or ‘energy arbitrage’ approach whereby Premium Energy would be spending cheap power to make expensive power.


Premium Energy, despite knowing the inefficiencies of its project, would be uprooting protected forests and fresh-water habitats to build a large dam, reservoir, turbines and tunnels. These developments would upend the Woodland Valley and local communities.

 
Equally important to the challenged economics of this project is the fact that it would wreak irreparable damage on the ecology of this protected forest area that thousands of business owners and visitors rely on. The Woodland Valley’s businesses and tourism, and its natural environment of fish, animals and plants—are all interdependent. The more people that come to this area to experience its streams and trails helps reinforce the significance of forest preservation and, in turn, helps maintain a constant flow of tourism to this area’s businesses.

 
Please honor the protected Catskills forest and stop this proposal from moving forward.

 
From:

Matt and Kate Kobussen
817 Woodland Valley Road
Phoenicia, NY 12464

