

Emilio Pardi, Phoenicia, NY.
Emilio Pardi - Phoenicia, NY resident. emiliopardi@yahoo.com / (845) 688-2824
Re: FERC docket number P-15056-000

To Whom It May Concern, 

     I am writing to express my strong opposition to Premium Energy Holdings, LLC’s proposed Ashokan Pumped Storage Project. As a lifelong resident of Woodland Valley, in Shandaken/Phoenicia, New York, I am deeply disturbed by the idea of Premium Energy Holdings, LLC turning my home into the proposed “Woodland Reservoir.” A California-based company, despite its good intentions of promoting renewable energy, cannot be allowed to enter a New York State-protected mountain preserve for the sole purpose of providing additional energy capacities. Not only would the proposed dam and reservoir increase turbidity in the Ashokan Watershed, thus drastically reducing quality levels for NYC’s primary water supply, but it would be devastating to our local communities and economy. Such proposed reservoirs will displace hundreds of residents by flooding/raising their homes. Although my own home is in the directly affected area, I am writing on behalf of my community and neighbors, many of whom settled here decades before I was born. 

     The Woodland Valley stream, which feeds into the broader Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir, is an ecologically diverse area that is home to protected species of fish, birds, plants, trees, and animals. I have spent countless days walking along its banks, swimming in its currents, and simply admiring its natural beauty. Over the past year, the Valley has been my place of respite from the ever-ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. These same qualities, stories, and uses are true of all three proposed site areas, and Premium Energy Holdings must recognize that their destruction is neither viable nor ethical. In 1885, the Catskills Forest Preserve was established by the State of New York as a primary habitat in Ulster County. Under Article XIV of the NYS constitution, the lands were provisionally said to be “forever kept as wild forest lands. They shall not be leased, sold or exchanged, or be taken by any corporation, public or private.”  
     As our area developed, this environment has become increasingly fragmented and strained. No dam or hydroelectric power plant can be created in this region without disrupting, and likely causing catastrophic damage to, the natural lands. All three proposed reservoirs fall directly within Audubon’s Catskill Peaks Important Bird Area, as well as having Status 1 land protections under USGS “Gap Analysis Program.” Accordingly, the Department of Energy’s own Hydropower Vision plan states that areas with “Status 1 or 2 protections are avoided for development proposals.” To avoid the legalities of such protections, Premium Energy Holdings is touting this as a “closed-loop” project. Simply put, this is an outright lie. All projects that add an upper reservoir to an existing lower reservoir are known as “add-on” projects. 
     Finally, this is not the first time our region has been disrupted by an outside entity wishing to transform our lands into assets for the benefit of others. Construction of the Ashokan Reservoir, between 1907-1915, displaced more than 25 existing communities spread out over thousands of acres so as to create an abundant water supply for New York City. Aside from the ensuant environmental devastation and emotional trauma, the impacts of the construction are still felt today. Specifically, a decreased tax base has hindered the maintenance of public infrastructure as well as decreased the availability of public services. With the rise of Catskills tourism, prompted by events such as the Phoenicia’s Top 10 Coolest Small Towns in America ranking, our region is now home to a $1.6 billion industry that employs over 20,000 people. As of 2019, second homes generated $360 million in economic activity, and this number has skyrocketed in the past year as thousands of metropolitan homeowners relocated to the Catskills. 
     Thus, I urge FERC to strongly oppose any further considerations of this project. Premium Energy Holdings, LLC must be denied the rights to initiate any construction in the Catskills. For any additional questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 
Emilio Pardi 


