

chauncey upson, chichester, NY.
To:
Kimberly D. Bose
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
888 First St. NE, Room 1A
Washington, D.C. 20426.

Docket number P-15056-000

My name is Chauncey Upson, and I own 158 acres of land in silver hollow, chichester ny.  i am one of the largest private contiguous land owners in ulster county and vote and pay taxes here.  I have been here for over 20 years.   my land is right next to one of the 3 sites from this flawed proposed project (stony clove).  

As a land owner, with warner creek in my property, i have had extensive interactions with the DEP over stream maintenance over the past 2 decades. my thoughts below are intimately informed by interactions with the DEP and ultimately management of the catskills watershed creek on my own land.      

these creeks up here are high velocity creeks, at steep gradients.   that means they transport immense amounts of sediment.   stony clove creek for example is the steepest gradient creek in ALL of the catskills mountains.   this project is counter to basic logic.  

this means that ANY impoundment (i.e. dam) of this creek will bring with it rock, sand,  silt and other sediment build up.   this will require constant (and costly) regular dredging and removal of debris.   something which your plan does  not foresee in its viability study.   if this dredging process is not regularly undertaken, then the dam will eventually breach, thereby subjecting the entire downstream portions of stony clove to damaging floods.

this is basic science.   the maintenance of the dam you propose alone would make it uneconomic.  

i am leaving aside the other catastrophic negative impacts to the local economy (loss of road access, loss of wild life, hiking, impact on water quality for the NYC water shed, etc).  i am purely talking about the severe flaws in the basis premise for this project.  

food for thought:   since the DEP has been taking data from stony clove:   the floods are way under estimated.   this valley can not take more water.   IRENE was supposed to be a one in 100 year story.   it was the record in the past 23 years of data taken by DEP.   but the Grinch storm of 2020 was "only" a 1 in 10 year storm, and look at the damage done.   these creek beds can not take MORE water.  

the proposal from Premier will lead to water levels rising by some 5 feet when fully in use.   this is WAY above levels of peak flooding that we have seen in past, which has destroyed homes, roads, wildlife and ecology, and infrastructure alike.   all to the detriment of the NYC watershed drinking water.  

this project will not work.   ANY dam project in the catskills will not work.   this is the forever wild protected watershed of the 20m people in the NYC metropolitan region.  

i expect in short order the full power and voice of both the DEC and the DEP to further convince you of the special considerations needed in this region vis a vis the NYC watershed.  

please listen to this basic scientific logic and deny any feasibility study to build a pumped storage facility in this region.  
 
thanks,

chauncey j. upson
silver hollow
chichester ny

